Competency-Based
Competitive Events
*Written Exam*
for State/Province Use
Test Number 1292
Booklet Number _____

Business Management and
Administration Cluster Exam
BLTDM – Business Law and Ethics Team Decision Making Event
HRM – Human Resources Management Series Event

INSTRUCTIONS: This is a timed, comprehensive exam for the occupational area
identified above. Do not open this booklet until instructed to do so by the
testing monitor. You will have _____ minutes to complete all questions.

CAUTION: Posting these materials on a website is a copyright violation.
This comprehensive exam was developed by MBA Research exclusively for DECA’s
2023-2024 Competitive Events Program. Items have been randomly selected from the MBA
Research Test-Item Bank and represent a variety of instructional areas. Performance indicators
for this exam are at the prerequisite, career-sustaining, and specialist levels. A descriptive test
key, including question sources and answer rationale, has been provided to the DECA
chartered association advisor.

Copyright © 2024 by Marketing & Business Administration Research and
Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio (dba MBA Research). Each individual test item contained
herein is the exclusive property of MBA Research. Items are licensed to DECA only for use as
configured within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose other than as
specifically authorized is prohibited. Possession of this exam, without written authorization,
under any other circumstances is a copyright violation. Posting to inter- or intranet sites is
specifically forbidden unless written permission is obtained prior to posting. Report violations to
DECA at 703.860.5000 and MBA Research at 800.448.0398. Permission for reprinting is
granted to DECA chartered associations authorized by DECA Inc.
DECA Inc. will impose sanctions on chapters and chartered associations for violations of this
policy up to and including disqualification of competitors and chapters from further participation.

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM

1

1. If a company wants to ensure that changes are implemented in the best possible way and that those changes
will lead to long-term benefits, it should use the __________ approach.
A. problem-solving
B. change-management
C. change-avoidance
D. solution-finding
2. A company is considering whether to expand its operations into a neighboring country. The company predicts
that the expansion will increase profits, but the firm's financial officials are concerned about the strength of the
foreign dollar. This is an example of which of the following risk factors associated with international business:
A. Governmental regulations
B. Environmental fluctuations
C. Foreign currency exchange
D. Domestic financial policies
3. Sonya wants to show her project team members the logical relationships among activities in their project. What
format should she use to present this information?
A. Project schedule network diagram
B. Project calendar
C. Milestone and deliverable chart
D. Bar chart
4. Brendon admires professional basketball players and often purchases products that players have endorsed.
Which of the following groups is influencing Brendon's buying behavior:
A. Subculture group
B. Reference group
C. Association group
D. Membership group
5. Customers who use revolving credit accounts are required to pay an additional cost on any balance unpaid at
the end of each payment period. Which of the following terms refers to this added cost:
A. Finance charge
B. Annual fee
C. Installment payment
D. Interest rate
6. Kari noticed a couple of withdrawals from her bank account that she did not make. Two days later, she received
mail from a medical provider about a treatment she didn't get. Which of the following types of consumer fraud
did Kari most likely suffer from:
A. Credit card fraud
B. Identity theft
C. Debt collection fraud
D. Phishing

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM

2

7. What is the potential benefit to a business that continuously takes action to improve the quality of its goods and
services?
A. Higher costs
B. Increased premiums
C. Increased product options
D. Higher demand
8. What might result if a business's merchandising budget called for purchasing more goods than customers
wanted?
A. Additional sales
B. Expanded market
C. Surplus profit
D. Increased costs
9. Which of the following is an example of receiving information:
A. Looking at a list of random addresses
B. Taking a language course
C. Learning to take someone's temperature
D. Reading a travel itinerary
10. Which of the following is an accurate statement about how customer records should be maintained:
A. Since customer information changes frequently, it is important to enable any employee to update customer
records.
B. It's not necessary to collect full records on customers because a quick internet search can easily discover
any missing information.
C. Customers' addresses and phone numbers change frequently, so customer records should only be updated
every three years.
D. Companies should avoid adding suppliers and competitors to customer records because it reduces the
accuracy of those records.
11. Jillian is working on a knowledge management project. Her company wants to capture and understand how and
why its managers use a certain collaboration software at work. To help her retrieve this information, Jillian
carefully observes managers going about their daily routines using the software in question. She also asks the
managers various questions about the software, such as "How does this tool make your life easier?" Jillian is
attempting to retrieve __________ knowledge.
A. embedded
B. tacit
C. explicit
D. understood
12. Which of the following gives project teams the opportunity to identify areas of inefficiency, record their
processes, and document knowledge gained from experience:
A. Lessons-learned document
B. Project charter
C. Scope statement
D. Work breakdown structure

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM

3

13. One of the most common reasons why a defendant may choose to settle a legal dispute out of court is to
A. avoid the high costs of going to trial.
B. earn the respect of a jury.
C. prove the defendant's innocence.
D. turn the ordeal into a public spectacle.
14. Which of the following is the starting point for a new civil litigation case:
A. Indictment
B. Discovery
C. Complaint
D. Preliminary hearing
15. Jack refuses to acknowledge the negative effects that not taking responsibility for decisions and actions has
had on his life. Jack is experiencing
A. hostility.
B. resentment.
C. guilt.
D. denial.
16. As a result of conducting an environmental scan, a business might find that the rate of unemployment is slowly
increasing, which is an example of a(n) __________ factor.
A. regulatory
B. economic
C. geographic
D. political
17. Business process improvement focuses on reducing process time, minimizing waste/inefficiencies, and
__________ of an established business process.
A. eliminating quality control
B. reducing oversight
C. developing protocols
D. improving output quality
18. What is the benefit of performing integrated change control?
A. It allows all changes to be accepted and carried out.
B. It allows project documents to change without changing the deliverables and processes.
C. It provides the team with areas for improvement.
D. It reduces risks that arise from making changes without considering the project as a whole.
19. A standard purchase order should include product specifications, quantities, prices, and
A. credit references.
B. the invoice code.
C. location of buyer's customer.
D. shipping requirements.

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM

20. A research firm develops a new computer software algorithm that significantly increases data analysis speed
and accuracy. How can the company ensure that the algorithm qualifies for trade secret protection?
A. Register it as a trade secret
B. Provide it on the market as an open-source product
C. Require employees to sign nondisclosure agreements
D. Register it as a patent
21. A small organization might need a(n) __________, whereas a large company might need a __________.
A. narrow span of control; wide span of control
B. unified chain of command; scalar chain of command
C. specialized work force; divided labor force
D. informal organizational structure; formalized, complex structure
22. The FMT Company wants to implement a software program to capture and communicate tacit knowledge.
Which of the following software applications is best suited to fulfill the company's needs:
A. Groupware
B. Presentation
C. Spreadsheet
D. Recovery
23. Which of the following statements about protecting digital customer data is true:
A. Protecting digital customer data is a responsibility of the IT department.
B. A company's protection of data has little impact on the customer's perception of the company.
C. Protecting digital customer data is only necessary for large businesses.
D. Data protection strategies should be reevaluated often.
24. Which of the following groups makes regular use of a business's managerial accounting information:
A. Customers
B. Investors
C. Supervisors
D. Creditors
25. Sandra is a manager at a distribution plant. Lately, her customers have been complaining about untimely
deliveries. Which area of the business does Sandra need to focus on to ensure on-time delivery?
A. Production
B. The sales force
C. Inventory control
D. Supply chain management
26. Silence is an effective negotiating technique to use with a vendor when a business wants the vendor to
A. obtain leverage.
B. initiate a gridlock.
C. maintain its authority.
D. make a concession.

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

4

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM

27. What happens during the emergence stage of a conflict?
A. The conflict is realized.
B. Options are discussed.
C. Resolution is achieved.
D. Complaints are aired.
28. The cost of designing a reliable, durable product is a(n) __________ cost.
A. appraisal
B. prevention
C. external failure
D. internal failure
29. Which of the following is a way that employees who handle sales transactions can help save the business
money:
A. Neglecting to validate credit cards
B. Watching for counterfeit money
C. Accepting coupons
D. Counting out too much change
30. Which of the following statements is true about emotional intelligence:
A. In many situations, individuals can improve their levels of emotional intelligence.
B. Effective leaders tend to have low emotional intelligence and high cognitive abilities.
C. Research indicates that emotional intelligence rarely affects a person's career success.
D. It is easier to develop cognitive abilities than it is to develop emotional intelligence levels.
31. Walmart, Chevron, and Ford Motor Company sell stock in their companies. They are examples of which of the
following types of business ownership:
A. Franchisee
B. Sole proprietorship
C. Partnership
D. Corporation
32. While reading the first draft of her report, Rachel changes some of the words and shortens some of the
sentences to improve the clarity and conciseness of the document. What step in the writing process is Rachel
performing?
A. Organizing
B. Researching
C. Editing
D. Formatting
33. An important aspect of using technology in customer relationship management involves
A. providing customers with excessive product information.
B. updating customer information in the computer database.
C. posting customer information on the business's website.
D. allowing employees to have complete access to customer information.

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

5

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM

6

34. A disease has ruined the orange crop for this season. Therefore, the price of oranges will
A. double.
B. remain the same.
C. decrease.
D. increase.
35. After a power outage, the point-of-sale software at Leif's Fine Treats malfunctions, meaning the store is unable
to complete any customer purchases. What type of planning would be most effective in this situation?
A. Operational
B. Tactical
C. Strategic
D. Contingency
36. A company is making big changes to its database. When should the company make these changes?
A. After work hours or when employees have downtime
B. Never—changes should not be made to a database.
C. At the beginning of the work week
D. Over the employees' lunch breaks
37. One way that managers can motivate employees to be more productive is by
A. finding ways to standardize tasks.
B. considering employees' suggestions.
C. developing automated systems.
D. offering inflexible working hours.
38. Which of the following is most likely to be a source of your values:
A. The values of your workplace
B. The culture in which you are raised
C. The actions and choices you make
D. The movies you enjoy watching
39. You check in with your group members often to make sure everyone is on track to finish the project. Which
characteristic of open, honest communication are you demonstrating?
A. Being consistent and ongoing
B. Allowing for conflict
C. Giving people the information they need
D. Avoiding half-truths
40. How can you make sure you have understood what someone has said?
A. Lean forward to demonstrate your interest.
B. Nod and smile to show you are on the same page.
C. Summarize and restate their key points.
D. Stop the conversation after every point to ask questions.

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM

7

41. One way for employees to enhance their career progression sometimes involves
A. accepting criticism.
B. working safely.
C. changing jobs.
D. following rules.
42. Inflation influences the balance of trade between countries through its effect on
A. menu costs.
B. the availability of commodities.
C. the Consumer Price Index.
D. currency exchange rates.
43. An effective way to prioritize work is to categorize tasks in
A. order of their importance.
B. numerical sequence.
C. alphabetical order.
D. relation to enjoyment level.
44. Maggie is writing an analytical report for the company's board of directors. She knows that some of the board
members will disagree with the conclusions that she plans to present in the report. What should Maggie do to
appeal to these board members?
A. Develop a comprehensive bibliography
B. Focus on the evidence that supports her conclusions
C. Include several colorful graphs and diagrams
D. Provide unrelated facts to distract readers from the primary issue
45. Becky's boss has asked her to do research on the company's last five annual financial reports. They want to
find out why the company has been losing more money this year than in previous years. What type of work is
Becky's boss asking her to perform?
A. Managerial accounting
B. Marketing research
C. Data normalization
D. Business analysis
46. What is a way to start determining which parts of a project are most important for you to evaluate?
A. Focus on financial data.
B. Consider project goals.
C. Perform gap analysis.
D. Communicate lessons learned with stakeholders.
47. Which of the following facility components are inspected by authorized officials to ensure that safety ordinances
are met:
A. Elevators
B. Computer networks
C. Portable cameras
D. Photocopiers

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM

8

48. Chief operations officer, process improvement specialist, and call center supervisor are __________ positions.
A. business analytics
B. human resources management
C. general management
D. operations management
49. How can an organization promote knowledge management from the top down?
A. Providing the right technology
B. Valuing competitiveness
C. Rewarding individual achievement
D. Encouraging a quiet workplace
50. Which of the following circumstances might be addressed in a project plan's change-management document:
A. A natural disaster
B. A holiday such as Christmas or Hanukkah
C. A project's changing purpose
D. A team member receiving a requested promotion
51. In what section of a research report would a writer place the following statement:
"A study conducted by York University indicated that many U.S. pharmaceutical companies are spending twice
the money on their promotional efforts as they are on product research and development."
A. Conclusion
B. Results
C. Introduction
D. Methodology
52. Even if an unethical action isn't illegal, it can still cause negative consequences for organizations, such as
A. decreased managerial authority.
B. imprisonment.
C. an increased customer base.
D. a poor reputation.
53. Which of the following are maintenance supplies that a business is likely to keep on hand:
A. Mops, furniture, and conveyer belts
B. Trash bags, sanitizer, and light bulbs
C. Paper towels, pens, and sportswear
D. Batteries, computers, and cleaning items

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM

9

54. In a basic supply chain, materials flow from producers to end users in a sequential, ordered process. How are
supply chain networks different?
A. Supply chain networks only involve the companies that function in upstream processes, not downstream
processes.
B. Supply chain networks are more complex and show how information and materials flow back and forth
among various supply chain partners.
C. The supply chain network is an older, outdated method of understanding the supply chain that is rarely used
today.
D. The supply chain network is a new, but untested, method of understanding the supply chain that is seen as
too radical for widespread use.
55. The purpose of a project charter is to
A. determine when key deadlines will be met.
B. break down work into smaller activities.
C. define what needs to be accomplished.
D. document what went well during a project.
56. Which of the following statements regarding captive insurance is true:
A. There is no financial advantage to forming a captive insurance company rather than using a traditional
insurance company.
B. Tax laws generally require that the insured demonstrate that they will be materially harmed if financial
losses occur to the captive insurer.
C. Businesses or industries often form captive insurance companies to evade tax laws.
D. Captive insurance companies are able to get away with simply serving as “reserve accounts” for saving
money in case of emergency.
57. Tracy's friend David works for TPS Industries. When Tracy saw a job on the company's website that interested
her, she contacted David to find out if he knew anything about the job. David told Tracy that he previously
worked with the hiring manager on several projects and would put in a good word for her. In this situation, Tracy
acted on an employment opportunity by
A. requesting an internship.
B. setting up a meeting.
C. networking with others.
D. volunteering her time.
58. Which of the following is an example of a customs regulation:
A. Corporations that hire illegal immigrants must pay fines to the government.
B. A country has issued a travel advisory for certain foreign nations that encourages citizens to take extra
precautions.
C. Citizens are not allowed to bring fresh fruits and vegetables back with them upon reentering the country.
D. Citizens must receive specific vaccinations before traveling to certain countries where disease is prevalent.
59. Employees' creative suggestions often result in changes that increase ___________ and reduce expenses.
A. efficiency
B. conflict
C. costs
D. losses

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM

10

60. An assistant bank manager overhears one of their tellers incorrectly quote a savings-account interest rate to a
potential customer. Rather than waiting until later to address the problem, the manager corrects the teller
immediately and makes sure the teller gives the customer the correct information. Which of the following
controls is taking place:
A. Feedback control
B. Preventive control
C. Concurrent control
D. Post control
61. What technological advancement has made project management software accessible no matter where
employees are located?
A. Augmented reality
B. Radio frequency identification
C. Cloud computing
D. Automation
62. You overhear your boss discussing private information about another employee's performance. You keep it to
yourself. Which trust-building technique are you demonstrating?
A. Taking responsibility for your mistakes
B. Communicating often and openly
C. Not sharing confidential information
D. Keeping your promises
63. When a company has fostered a negative work culture, employees tend to distrust their managers and
coworkers and are less likely to
A. accept jobs offers from other employers.
B. share their work-related tacit knowledge.
C. use personal leave time.
D. complete their assignments on time.
64. Emily's classmate is upset because they are having a hard time understanding the new concepts they're
learning in math class. Which of the following actions should Emily take if she wants to show her classmate
empathy:
A. Think of a time when she had difficulty with an assignment, and tell the classmate she knows how they feel
B. Tell the classmate they should sign up for after-school tutoring so that their grades will improve
C. Let the classmate copy her answers on their next test
D. Ask the classmate how long they studied for their last test
65. Which of the following is true of internal record maintenance:
A. It is important solely for tax purposes.
B. It helps you determine your profit.
C. All records must be kept for the life of the business.
D. It isn't necessary for new or small companies.

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM

11

66. Which of the following elements of supply chain management involves making sure that supply chain processes
happen on time, on budget, and are of quality:
A. Distribution/Logistics
B. Purchasing/Supply
C. Integration
D. Operations
67. A business that wants to maintain positive, long-term relationships with its vendors should
A. automate ordering processes.
B. develop a competitive orientation.
C. share relevant information.
D. request volume discounts.
68. For successful innovation in the workplace, employees should have a desire to learn and be willing to
A. suppress ideas.
B. follow procedures.
C. exhibit bias.
D. accept change.
69. Businesses have an ethical obligation to make sure the products they sell to customers are
A. inexpensive.
B. safe to use.
C. marketed well.
D. name-brand.
70. An employee approaches a regular customer who appears to be looking for a specific item and says, "Good
morning, Mr. Henderson, may I direct you to a particular product?" Is this the most appropriate way to deal with
that customer?
A. Yes, employees should always greet customers and call them by name.
B. No, employees are too busy to pay attention to only one customer.
C. Yes, employees should be well informed and able to help customers.
D. No, employees are not expected to have conversations with customers.
71. Jorge is sharing a humorous story with his audience members, who are looking at him and laughing. Jorge can
assume that the audience is
A. inspired.
B. informed.
C. engaged.
D. persuaded.
72. Which of the following is an example of a project manager motivating a project team:
A. Ryan advises Samantha that she will need to perform additional duties while Maggie is on vacation.
B. Tamara recognizes how hard her team is working, so she provides lunch for the team members.
C. Marcus tells Thomas that he might work more efficiently if he performed one task before another one.
D. Zoey sends an email requesting each team member provide her with a weekly activity report.

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM

12

73. The sales manager sends an email to the distribution center manager to ask if a specific shipment has been
received. What type of communication is occurring in this situation?
A. Horizontal
B. Downward
C. Upward
D. Personal
74. Why has the use of risk modeling increased in recent years?
A. Wider availability of data
B. More expensive technology
C. Decreased regulation
D. Less focus on efficiency
75. What should project managers do to ensure that team members will perform their designated tasks efficiently?
A. Correct the team members' mistakes for them
B. Ask team members if they like their assignments
C. Communicate their roles and responsibilities to them
D. Provide a team evaluation form
76. What can businesses do to reduce risks associated with noncompliance?
A. Monitor regulations
B. Obtain customer feedback
C. Evaluate competitors
D. Allocate operating funds
77. What common pitfall might project teams encounter when developing a work breakdown structure?
A. Using the work breakdown structure to replace the project schedule
B. Creating a corresponding work breakdown structure dictionary
C. Listing all work breakdown structure components as deliverables
D. Including all relevant individuals to help develop the work breakdown structure
78. Joseph is the vice president of finance for a large corporation. Recently, he told his sister to dump her stock in
the company because it is about to declare bankruptcy. In some countries, Joseph could go to prison for
breaking laws pertaining to
A. insider trading.
B. bribery.
C. embezzlement.
D. money laundering.
79. A manufacturing company uses Six Sigma as a quality management framework. This means that the company
A. has created its own quality management framework.
B. follows the plan-do-check-adjust approach.
C. uses an IT-oriented approach to quality management.
D. produces only 3.4 defects per million parts.

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM

80. Which of the following is most likely to have a serious negative impact on a developed country's ability to
participate in world trade:
A. Technological advances
B. Unstable government
C. Difference in language
D. Foreign exchange rate
81. When a company uses process thinking to design a process, it should make sure that the process has
A. an unlimited scope.
B. multiple process owners.
C. a goal.
D. a deadline.
82. Which of the following airlines is most likely to be undervalued, based on their price-to-cash flow ratios:
Sky High
Current Stock Price: $14.36
Cash Flow per Share: $5.21
Smooth Flying
Current Stock Price: $22.78
Cash Flow per Share: $4.12
Soar the Sky
Current Stock Price: $18.50
Cash Flow per Share: $3.59
White Clouds
Current Stock Price: $25.81
Cash Flow per Share: $6.94
A. White Clouds
B. Soar the Sky
C. Smooth Flying
D. Sky High
83. Which of the following is an effect of overstaffing:
A. Exhausted workers
B. Poor customer service
C. Low morale
D. Inefficiency

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

13

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM

14

84. Peter is a manager for a company. When he informs the company that he is leaving, what should the company
do to protect its digital assets?
A. Remove backups of all of Peter's data and files.
B. Delete Peter's files immediately to ensure security.
C. Store Peter's personal information in a database.
D. Retrieve Peter's work-related usernames and passwords.
85. Premiere Office Supplies used to make enough revenue through existing customer reorders, but lately, many
customers have begun ordering from YourOffice, a new retailer. Therefore, Premiere Office Supplies had to
change its sales process to increase revenue due to
A. competition.
B. regulation.
C. technology.
D. growth.
86. Records that contain information about a business's monetary transactions and money are most likely to be __________ records.
A. asset
B. tax
C. budget
D. financial
87. Which of the following is an example of how technology can impact supply chain management:
A. A new law is passed requiring distribution centers to follow additional safety regulations.
B. A consulting company hires 50 new entry-level information technology employees.
C. A major hurricane damages several storage facilities and causes delivery delays.
D. A manufacturing firm tracks its inventory using a digital warehouse management system.
88. Which of the following is an action that a business can take to capture tacit knowledge from its employees:
A. Obtaining statistical reports from the internet
B. Conducting personal interviews
C. Developing a competitive analysis
D. Holding customer focus groups
89. Which of the following statements best describes the relationship between people and change management:
A. Good employees do as they are told.
B. People embrace change automatically.
C. Change happens one person at a time.
D. Rapid changes boost employee morale.
90. When a manager is directing, they are
A. setting goals.
B. initiating action.
C. evaluating feedback.
D. identifying resources.

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM

15

91. Which of the following statements regarding job applications is true:
A. You should never include personal information that is inaccurate.
B. Job applications require you to have a cosigner if you are under 18.
C. You do not need to disclose any felonies you have been convicted of.
D. It's okay to omit a previous job if you left on bad terms.
92. A business analysis indicates that the TWB Corporation could save $125,675 a year in paper purchases if all its
employees decreased photocopying activities by 15%. The analysis provides TWB with important information
related to
A. return on investment.
B. resale goods.
C. waste reduction.
D. efficiency levels.
93. At his company, Paul is responsible for making sure the organization is complying with its privacy policy. Which
privacy principle is Paul fulfilling?
A. Collection limitation
B. Accountability
C. Purpose specification
D. Openness
94. Sasha recently announced that she is planning an overnight company outing in a state park. Since that
announcement, several members of her team have expressed concern about the event because of rumors of
bear attacks in the area. What is the first thing that Sasha should do to determine the actual level of risk
associated with camping at the park?
A. Risk communication
B. A SWOT analysis
C. Environmental scan
D. A risk assessment
95. Which of the following is a reason for a company to locate its manufacturing operations close to its target
market:
A. Quality standards are decreased if customers know the laborers personally.
B. Shipping costs tend to be lower if a product is manufactured closer to customers.
C. Packaging costs are greatly reduced in areas where only one language is used.
D. Labor costs tend to be lower in areas that have both customers and workers.
96. Which of the following legal processes is a nonbinding way to resolve a dispute:
A. Litigation
B. Mediation
C. Mitigation
D. Arbitration

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM

97. Which of the following is a disadvantage of process thinking:
A. It intentionally ignores past and future events.
B. It doesn't help solve complex challenges.
C. It lowers quality and customer loyalty.
D. It decreases profitability and efficiency.
98. Stress and fatigue are __________ factors that can affect business process design.
A. government
B. human
C. technological
D. regulatory
99. Avery is a recent college graduate who is not working and is actively looking for a job. This is an example of
__________ unemployment.
A. frictional
B. cyclical
C. structural
D. relational
100. What management function is responsible for coordinating resources in ways that maximize efficiency?
A. Staffing
B. Directing
C. Controlling
D. Organizing

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

16

KEY
Test Number 1292

Business Management and
Administration Cluster Exam
BLTDM – Business Law and Ethics Team Decision Making Event
HRM – Human Resources Management Series Event

CAUTION: Posting these materials on a website is a copyright violation.
This comprehensive exam was developed by MBA Research exclusively for DECA’s
2023-2024 Competitive Events Program. Items have been randomly selected from the MBA
Research Test-Item Bank and represent a variety of instructional areas. Performance indicators
for this exam are at the prerequisite, career-sustaining, and specialist levels. A descriptive test
key, including question sources and answer rationale, has been provided to the DECA
chartered association advisor.

Copyright © 2024 by Marketing & Business Administration Research and
Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio (dba MBA Research). Each individual test item contained
herein is the exclusive property of MBA Research. Items are licensed to DECA only for use as
configured within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose other than as
specifically authorized is prohibited. Possession of this exam, without written authorization,
under any other circumstances is a copyright violation. Posting to inter- or intranet sites is
specifically forbidden unless written permission is obtained prior to posting. Report violations to
DECA at 703.860.5000 and MBA Research at 800.448.0398. Permission for reprinting is
granted to DECA chartered associations authorized by DECA Inc.
DECA Inc. will impose sanctions on chapters and chartered associations for violations of this
policy up to and including disqualification of competitors and chapters from further participation.

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

1

1. B
Change-management. The change-management approach ensures that changes are implemented in the best
possible way and that those changes will lead to long-term benefits. Change management is not referred to as
problem-solving, change avoidance, or solution finding.
SOURCE: SM:095 Explain the nature of change management
SOURCE: MindTools. (2023). The four principles of change management. Retrieved September 22, 2023, from
https://www.mindtools.com/pages/article/newPPM_87.htm
2. C
Foreign currency exchange. The rate of exchange between foreign currencies is constantly fluctuating. If a
foreign currency's value decreases significantly, companies may lose money. It is important for companies to
consider this risk before engaging in international business. Environmental fluctuations, domestic financial
policies, and governmental regulations are also important to consider before expanding into a foreign country;
however, they are not described in this example.
SOURCE: RM:092 Describe international considerations affecting risk management
SOURCE: Saint-Leger, R. (2019, January 25). Risk involved in an international business. Retrieved September
22, 2023, from https://bizfluent.com/info-7766597-risk-involved-international-business.html
3. A
Project schedule network diagram. A project schedule network diagram shows activities and relationships. It is
the best method for demonstrating the relationships among activities in a project. A bar chart is a depiction of
activities, dates, and durations using vertical and horizontal axes. It does not necessarily show the logical
relationships among the activities. A milestone chart is similar to a bar chart, but only shows the start or
completion of major deliverables. Again, it does not show the relationships among activities. A project calendar
is a tool that identifies working days and shifts that are available for scheduled activities. It is not the best option
for showing the relationships among project activities.
SOURCE: PJ:010 Manage project schedule
SOURCE: Holohan, R. (n.d.). 6 steps to successful schedules. Retrieved September 22, 2023, from
https://www.projectsmart.co.uk/scheduling/6-steps-to-successful-schedules.php
4. B
Reference group. Even social groups that people don't belong to can affect their buying behavior. These are
called reference groups, and they include groups someone aspires to be a part of as well as groups they want
to distance themselves from. In this example, Brendon's buying behavior is being influenced by a reference
group—specifically, professional basketball players. His behavior is not being influenced by a membership
group or a subculture in this example. A membership group is a group that someone is a part of, such as a
church or sports team. A subculture is a culture within a larger culture, such as Hispanics in the United States.
An association group is not generally a term used to describe a particular influence on buying behavior.
SOURCE: MK:014 Explain factors that influence customer/client/business buying behavior
SOURCE: LAP-MK-014—Cause and Effect (Buying Behavior)
5. A
Finance charge. Finance charges are interest charges on accounts that are not paid in full at the end of each
payment period. They are usually a percentage of the total amount due. Annual fees are yearly fees charged for
the privilege of using a bank credit card. Interest rates are fees the lender charges the borrower for the use of
money. Installment payments are set amounts paid by specific times to repay an installment loan or to pay for
an installment credit purchase.
SOURCE: FI:002 Explain the purposes and importance of credit
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance)

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

2

6. B
Identity theft. Identity theft is the fraudulent acquisition and use of a person's private identifying information (e.g.,
name, bank account number), usually for financial gain. Because someone used Kari's bank information in an
unauthorized manner to withdraw money from her account and undergo medical treatment in her name, she
suffered from identity theft. Credit card fraud occurs when someone steals or finds your credit card and obtains
information from it to make purchases or use your card in a fraudulent manner. Phishing is an online identity
theft scam that fools its victims into believing they are submitting sensitive, personal information (such as credit
card numbers or bank passwords) to a legitimate website. Debt collection fraud is when scammers call or
contact consumers demanding payment of fake outstanding debts.
SOURCE: FI:073 Protect against identity theft
SOURCE: Fontinelle, A. (2023, June 8). The most common types of consumer fraud. Retrieved September 21,
2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/financial-edge/0512/the-most-common-types-of-consumerfraud.aspx#toc-debt-collection-fraud
7. D
Higher demand. Continuous improvement is an ongoing process that looks for ways to increase the levels of
excellence in relation to a process, good, or service. Potential benefits of improved processes often increase
the business's productivity levels. Increased productivity levels result in increased outputs, lower costs, and
increased revenue. When quality improves, customer satisfaction levels often increase, which often results in a
higher demand for the business's goods and services. A premium is an item that a business offers to the
purchasers of a particular product. Offering premiums to customers and increasing product options do not
impact the continuous quality-improvement efforts toward a business's products and are not potential benefits of
said efforts.
SOURCE: QM:003 Discuss the need for continuous improvement of the quality process
SOURCE: Weedmark, D. (2019, September 4). Benefits of continuous quality improvement (CQI). Retrieved
September 22, 2023, from https://bizfluent.com/facts-5317408-benefits-continuous-qualityimprovement-cqi.html
8. D
Increased costs. Merchandising budgets determine inventory levels by regulating and planning for the amount
of products expected to be sold to customers. When there is more merchandise available than customers want,
the business's costs increase for storing, protecting, and insuring the excess merchandise. Accurate
merchandising budgets help prevent this situation. Purchasing more goods than customers want to buy will not
help a business to increase its sales, expand its market, or generate surplus profit.
SOURCE: FI:106 Describe the nature of budgets
SOURCE: LAP-FI-106—Money Tracks (Nature of Budgets)
9. D
Reading a travel itinerary. Reading a travel itinerary is an example of receiving information—facts and figures in
useful form. A travel itinerary tells you where you are going, when you are going, and what you'll do when you
get there. Taking a language course and learning to take someone's temperature are both examples of
receiving knowledge. Looking at a list of random addresses is an example of receiving raw data; it might be
used for a marketing research study.
SOURCE: KM:001 Explain the nature of knowledge management
SOURCE: LAP-KM-001—Know Go (The Nature of Knowledge Management)

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

3

10. D
Companies should avoid adding suppliers and competitors to customer records because it reduces the
accuracy of those records. Adding suppliers and competitors to customer records could cause confusion.
Supplier and competitor information should be stored in separate records where the information can be used
effectively. The process of updating customer information should be limited to a few employees to ensure that
changes are made accurately and that the information is kept confidential. Information changes frequently, so
customer records should be updated at least once a year to maintain accurate information. Information found on
the internet may not be reliable, so complete records should be created by asking the customer to provide the
necessary information.
SOURCE: NF:002 Maintain customer records
SOURCE: Entrepreneur. (2023). Sales records. Retrieved September 21, 2023, from
https://www.entrepreneur.com/encyclopedia/sales-records
11. A
Embedded. Embedded knowledge is information that is "trapped" within organizational routines, processes, and
protocols. This type of knowledge is not clearly communicated; rather, it is hidden within employees' daily work
routines. Tacit knowledge is knowledge that is intuitive—it is often hard to define and experience-based. Tacit
knowledge is deeply personal and is often the hardest type of knowledge to capture. Explicit knowledge is
widely available information that is easy to access and understand. An example of a source of explicit
knowledge would be a company training manual. "Understood knowledge" is not generally a term used to
describe one of the three main types of knowledge.
SOURCE: KM:018 Apply knowledge management processes
SOURCE: Knowledge Management Tools. (2018). The different types of knowledge. Retrieved September 21,
2023, from https://www.knowledge-management-tools.net/different-types-of-knowledge.html
12. A
Lessons-learned document. The lessons-learned document is a project-end summary of what went well, what
didn't go well, and how to improve in the future. It gives project teams the opportunity to identify areas of
inefficiency, record their processes, and document knowledge gained from experience. The project charter is a
formal document that officially authorizes a project to get underway. The scope statement is a description of the
project and the work to be done within established deadlines and the allotted budget. The work breakdown
structure is a document that details the division of a project workload into smaller, more manageable parts.
SOURCE: PJ:008 Close project
SOURCE: Eby, K. (2021, May 6). Guide to lessons learned in project management. Retrieved September 22,
2023, from https://www.smartsheet.com/content/lessons-learned
13. A
Avoid the high costs of going to trial. Litigation costs are often extremely high—and the outcome of a trial could
be potentially more damaging to a defendant than settling out of court. Settling, however, generally involves
some sort of admission of wrongdoing—even if the defendant believes it did nothing wrong. Therefore, proving
the defendant's innocence is not generally a reason for settling a case out of court. Trials can also turn into
public spectacles, drawing unwanted attention and potentially negative publicity to the defendant. Settling out of
court is an effective way to avoid turning the case into this sort of public drama. Earning the respect of a jury
could only happen via a trial, not by settling out of court.
SOURCE: BL:159 Describe factors affecting the settlement of legal matters
SOURCE: The Free Dictionary. (2023). Settlement. Retrieved September 21, 2023, from http://legaldictionary.thefreedictionary.com/settlement

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

4

14. C
Complaint. A complaint is the formal document filed by a party in court that demands relief from another party.
Discovery comes after a complaint has been filed and deals with the sharing of evidence between two opposing
parties in court. A preliminary hearing is generally a criminal hearing. An indictment can start a criminal court
case, not a civil court case.
SOURCE: BL:160 Describe the litigation process
SOURCE: Murray, J. (2019, October 17). The litigation process for business individuals. Retrieved September
21, 2023, from https://www.thebalancesmb.com/litigation-and-business-disputes-398330
15. D
Denial. Jack is experiencing denial when he refuses to acknowledge the negative effects that not taking
responsibility for decisions and actions has had on his life. People can experience denial without necessarily
being hostile (argumentative, angry) about it. Guilt is a negative feeling people experience when they've done
something they shouldn't or have not done something they should. Resentment is a feeling of bitterness that
people experience when they think they've been treated unfairly.
SOURCE: EI:075 Take responsibility for decisions and actions
SOURCE: LAP-EI-075—It's Up to You (Taking Responsibility for Decisions and Actions)
16. B
Economic. An environmental scan is an analysis of external forces that influence a business's success. The
fluctuation of unemployment rates is an economic factor because unemployment has an effect on consumers'
ability to buy goods and services. If consumers are unemployed, they do not have income to spend. As a result,
businesses do not sell as much because consumers are not buying. When this situation occurs, businesses
often reduce expenses in an attempt to stay in business until the rate of employment starts to rise again. The
rate of unemployment is not a geographic, political, or regulatory factor.
SOURCE: NF:015 Conduct an environmental scan to obtain business information
SOURCE: LAP-NF-015—Get the 4-1-1 (Conducting an Environmental Scan)
17. D
Improving output quality. Once a business process has been established, focus turns to improving that process.
Recognizing the need for these improvements tends to focus on maximizing the quality of the process's end
result without increasing the amount of input or materials cost. Reducing waste and cost and maximizing quality
are measures of the efficiency of a process, and efficiency is a central goal of process improvement. Reducing
oversight may result from the improvement of a process, but it is not a chief consideration unless that oversight
is shown to be wasteful. Quality control is a central driver of process improvement. Developing protocols should
largely happen at the process design stage, not the improvement stage.
SOURCE: OP:476 Explain the causes of business process changes
SOURCE: Kothari, A. (2021). Business process improvement (bpi)—definition, steps & methodologies.
Retrieved September 21, 2023, from https://tallyfy.com/business-process-improvement-bpi/

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

5

18. D
It reduces risks that arise from making changes without considering the project as a whole. The Perform
Integrated Change Control process involves reviewing all change requests, approving changes, and managing
changes. Without this process, changes would not be thoroughly considered and analyzed before being made,
which could bring risks and unintended consequences. Performing integrated change control does not allow all
changes to be accepted; some change requests are denied. The Perform Integrated Change Control process
does not necessarily provide the team with areas for improvement; instead, this is a function of the Close
Project process. Finally, the Perform Integrated Change Control process includes both changes to the project
documents and changes to the deliverables and processes.
SOURCE: PJ:009 Execute and control projects
SOURCE: Mind Tools. (2023). Critical path analysis and PERT charts: Planning and scheduling more complex
projects. Retrieved September 22, 2023, from https://www.mindtools.com/atzj5xr/critical-pathanalysis-and-pert-charts
19. D
Shipping requirements. A regular or stock purchase order should include all of the necessary information for
processing the request, which includes the appropriate quantities and prices of the desired goods. The
purchase order should provide the shipping location at the desired time for delivery. In some situations, the
buyer may also include the desired shipment method on the purchase order. For example, a business that
orders a standard part to repair a piece of equipment may want the part shipped by air to ensure that it receives
the part quickly. If the business does not indicate that it needs the item quickly, the vendor may ship it by rail or
truck, which would take longer to deliver. Unless the order is a drop shipment, the vendor does not need to
know the location of the buyer's customer. The invoice is processed by the vendor rather than the buyer;
therefore, the buyer would not provide an invoice code or number. The buyer might need to provide the supplier
with credit references from their other vendors if the company is placing an initial order; however, this
information is not necessary to provide on regular purchase orders. In most cases, the buyer must complete a
different form to list credit references.
SOURCE: OP:250 Describe types of purchase orders
SOURCE: Procurify (2021, April 23). All you ever need to know about purchase orders. Retrieved September
21, 2023, from https://blog.procurify.com/2013/09/23/all-you-ever-needed-to-know-about-purchaseorders/
20. C
Require employees to sign nondisclosure agreements. Nondisclosure agreements are legally binding contracts
that prevent employees from sharing company trade secrets. A trade secret is protected under laws that
prevent unfair competition, but it is not formally registered like a trademark or patent. In order for information to
qualify as a trade secret and receive protection under the law, it must possess commercial value, and the
company must take steps to protect the information. A company can protect trade secrets by requiring
employees to sign confidentiality agreements or nondisclosure agreements which make it unlawful to share
trade secrets with the public, other employers, or competitors. When information is shared as an open-source
product, it is widely available to the public and no longer qualifies as a trade secret.
SOURCE: KM:004 Explain legal considerations for knowledge management
SOURCE: Johnson, K., & Madara, J. (2023, March 21). Proprietary, confidential info, trade secrets, knowhow—differences for business success. Retrieved September 21, 2023, from
https://www.foxrothschild.com/publications/proprietary-confidential-info-trade-secrets-know-howdifferences-for-business-success

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

6

21. D
Informal organizational structure; formalized, complex structure. The size of the organization impacts decisionmaking in regard to organizing. Larger companies tend to have more complicated structures and need more
formalized organization. On the other hand, smaller companies might not need a complex, structured
organizational process. The size of the organization is not necessarily related to the span of control;
additionally, a small organization could be more likely to have a wide span of control than a narrow span of
control. Specialization and the division of labor are not necessarily related to the size of the organization. All
organizations’ chains of command should have the principle of the unity of command and the scalar principle,
regardless of size.
SOURCE: SM:064 Explain managerial considerations in organizing
SOURCE: LAP-SM-064—Put It All Together (Managerial Considerations in Organizing)
22. A
Groupware. Groupware or collaborative computer software allows many employees to access and share
information, including tacit knowledge. Some applications, such as email and instant messaging, allow
employees to instantly transmit messages to coworkers who are in remote locations. The primary use of
spreadsheet applications is to show numerical information in a logical format. Businesspeople use presentation
software to develop visual aids that support their business presentations. Businesses use recovery applications
to back up their computer data. The backed up data can be used if the computer systems break or fail.
SOURCE: KM:003 Explain the use of technology in knowledge management
SOURCE: UsabilityFirst. (2002-2015). Introduction to collaborative software. Retrieved September 21, 2023,
from http://www.usabilityfirst.com/about-usability/web-application-design/collaborative-softwaregroupware/introduction-to-collaborative-software/
23. D
Data protection strategies should be reevaluated often. Data protection strategies should be reevaluated often
because, as technology changes and hackers become more sophisticated, what was a good strategy five years
ago may not be effective today. Protecting digital data is an important task for everyone in the company, not just
the IT department. If a company fails to adequately protect its data, customers will likely have a negative
perception of that company. Protecting digital customer data is necessary for businesses of all sizes.
SOURCE: OP:518 Comply with strategies to protect digital customer data (e.g., information about customers,
customers' credit-card numbers, passwords, customer transactions)
SOURCE: Rossi, B. (2019, December 3). 10 ways businesses can protect customer data. Retrieved September
22, 2023, from https://www.information-age.com/10-ways-businesses-can-protect-customer-data123459341/
24. C
Supervisors. Supervisors, executives, and managers are the primary users of a business’s managerial
accounting information. This accounting information helps those in a leadership role make wise financial
decisions. Creditors study financial accounting information to make decisions about extending credit to the
business. Investors are sent financial accounting reports on a regular basis so that they can evaluate their
investment. Customers do not typically use a business’s accounting information.
SOURCE: FI:085 Explain the concept of accounting
SOURCE: LAP-FI-085—Show Me the Money (Nature of Accounting)

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

7

25. D
Supply chain management. Supply chain management is a career area in which employees supervise the
complete process of getting products into the marketplace—a career field in which employees are responsible
for the flow of goods from the manufacturer to the end user. Inventory control is the tracking of the amount, the
kind, and the value of inventory that a business has on hand. The sales force sells the products and services
but is not necessarily responsible for delivery. Production is the process of creating goods and services, but is
not responsible for delivery.
SOURCE: OP:477 Explain the impact of supply chains on business performance
SOURCE: NC State University. (2021, August 19). What is supply chain management (SCM)? Retrieved
September 21, 2023, from https://scm.ncsu.edu/scm-articles/article/what-is-supply-chainmanagement
26. D
Make a concession. A concession is something that one party gives up during a negotiation. Effective
negotiators plan the points that they are willing to concede before going to the negotiating table. Often, the
negotiator will use silence as a way to make the vendor feel uncomfortable. The business hopes that the vendor
might concede the point to fill the silence and keep the discussion going. The business will work to maintain its
leverage or power (authority) over the negotiation so it can get what it wants from the vendor. If agreement
cannot be reached, the negotiation may end in gridlock, a situation in which neither party gets what it wants.
SOURCE: OP:337 Negotiate terms with vendors in business
SOURCE: Walsh, D. (2021, April 27). In negotiation, use silence to improve outcomes for all. Retrieved
September 21, 2023, from https://mitsloan.mit.edu/ideas-made-to-matter/negotiation-use-silence-toimprove-outcomes-all
27. A
The conflict is realized. During the emergence stage of conflict, the participants become aware of the conflict
and experience mental and physical reactions. Complaints are aired during the escalation stage of conflict.
Options are discussed during the de-escalation stage. Resolution is the last stage of conflict.
SOURCE: EI:015 Use conflict-resolution skills
SOURCE: LAP-EI-915—Stop the Madness (Conflict Resolution in Business)
28. B
Prevention. Prevention costs are the costs associated with making sure defective products don't get made in
the first place (quality assurance). These costs could include the design and engineering process, hiring and
training capable employees, purchasing high-quality equipment and materials, etc. Appraisal costs are the costs
associated with catching defective products as quickly as possible (quality control). Internal failure costs are the
costs associated with defective products before they make it to the customer. External failure costs are the
costs associated with defective products that have reached the customer.
SOURCE: QM:001 Explain the nature of quality management
SOURCE: LAP-QM-001—Keep It Quality (Nature of Quality Management)
29. B
Watching for counterfeit money. Employees who handle sales transactions have excellent opportunities to save
the business money. They can do this by watching for counterfeit money. An employee who accepts counterfeit
money actually costs a business money because the counterfeit currency is worthless. In effect, the business
has given away a good or service free of charge. Accepting coupons saves customers money instead of the
company issuing them. Employees should always validate credit cards and count out the exact amount of
change.
SOURCE: OP:025 Explain employee's role in expense control
SOURCE: LAP-OP-025—Buck Busters (Employee Role in Expense Control)
Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

8

30. A
In many situations, individuals can improve their levels of emotional intelligence. Emotional intelligence is the
ability to recognize and manage emotions in ourselves and in others. Individuals who are willing to recognize,
evaluate, and change the way they relate with others can improve their emotional intelligence. People who have
high levels of emotional intelligence tend to be effective leaders and achieve career success because they can
relate well with others. Cognitive intelligence involves the ability to reason and apply logic. An individual's
cognitive abilities are influenced by biological and heredity factors, which are not easily changed.
SOURCE: EI:001 Describe the nature of emotional intelligence
SOURCE: LAP-EI-001—EQ and You (Emotional Intelligence)
31. D
Corporation. Walmart, Chevron, and Ford Motor Company are all large businesses owned by their
shareholders, who own stock in the company. These businesses are operated under written permission from
the states or provinces in which they operate. A sole proprietorship is a business owned and operated by one
person. A partnership is owned by two or more people. A franchisee purchases the rights to operate a business
using the parent company's (franchisor's) name.
SOURCE: BL:003 Explain types of business ownership
SOURCE: LAP-BL-003—Own It Your Way (Types of Business Ownership)
32. C
Editing. Editing is the process of assessing the flow and clarity of written materials. Effective editing often
involves reorganizing or shortening sentences, changing words, and correcting spelling and grammatical errors
to improve the readability of the document. Researching is the process of gathering information for the report,
which is done before the writing process begins. Organizing involves planning the order in which to present the
information in the document. Formatting involves establishing the "mechanical" structure of the document, such
as using block or indented paragraphs, page-number location, etc.
SOURCE: CO:089 Edit and revise written work consistent with professional standards
SOURCE: Gregg Learning. (2018, November 30). The editing process for business writing. [Video]. Retrieved
September 20, 2023, from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3gyBfNsZSdk
33. B
Updating customer information in the computer database. Customer relationship management (CRM) is the
combination of strategies, processes, and policies that a business uses to meet or exceed customer
expectations and to provide customers with outstanding experiences at every touch point. An important aspect
of CRM is ensuring that customer data are current. For example, if the customer notifies the business about a
change of address and the business does not update its computer database to reflect the change, the
business's promotional mailings and invoices will not reach the customer in a timely manner, if at all. In another
situation, a business might have multiple database records for one customer. If the business sends multiple
(excessive) copies of promotional materials (e.g., product catalog) to the customer based on the data in the
database, the customer may become annoyed. Sending multiple copies of a single mailing to one customer is
also a waste of the business's money. To maintain the customer's privacy, the business should not post
customer information on its website, nor should it allow its employees to have complete access to a customer's
confidential information.
SOURCE: CR:018 Describe the use of technology in customer relationship management
SOURCE: Erin Murphy. (2015, November 16). Podcast 1- CRM technology changes. [Video]. Retrieved
September 20, 2023, from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J4JvMtupiWc

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

9

34. D
Increase. When supply (the number of like products that will be offered for sale at a particular time at a certain
price) is short, consumers bid against one another to obtain the product. Because there will not be enough
oranges to meet consumer demand, the price of oranges will increase. However, there is no way to determine
that prices will double. The price is not likely to remain the same or decrease, because there will not be enough
oranges to meet demand.
SOURCE: EC:005 Explain the principles of supply and demand
SOURCE: LAP-EC-011—It's the Law (Supply and Demand)
35. D
Contingency. Contingency planning includes backup plans and crisis responses for a variety of scenarios. A
contingency plan would help Leif's Fine Treats determine the best way to proceed. Tactical planning involves
specific, measurable, short-term goals. A strategic plan looks at the big picture and defines a company's overall
goals. Operational plans are used to document processes on a day-to-day basis.
SOURCE: SM:063 Discuss the nature of managerial planning
SOURCE: Pingboard. (2020, April 27). Organizational planning guide: Types of plans, steps, and examples.
Retrieved September 22, 2023, from https://pingboard.com/blog/organizational-planning-guidetypes-of-plans-steps-and-examples/
36. A
After work hours or when employees have downtime. Database changes should be made at a time that is the
most convenient for employees, such as after work hours or when they have downtime. That way, employee
work will have minimum disruptions. Changes need to be made to databases from time to time. These changes
should not take place just as employees are beginning their work week. They should also not be made over
lunch breaks, since changes may take much longer than the length of a break.
SOURCE: NF:264 Adhere to data change best practices
SOURCE: Unitrends. (n.d.). Routine SQL database maintenance is essential for the smooth and fast backup
SharePoint operation. Retrieved September 21, 2023, from https://helpdesk.kaseya.com/hc/engb/articles/4407520626833-Routine-SQL-database-maintenance-is-essential-for-the-smooth-andfast-backup-SharePoint-operation37. B
Considering employees' suggestions. Enthusiastic, motivated workers are much more productive than
disinterested, unmotivated ones. Managers can help motivate employees by giving serious consideration to
employees' ideas or suggestions. Employees who feel that their suggestions for improvement or change will be
taken seriously and implemented, if possible, usually are motivated to perform well and be productive because
they feel that the business appreciates them. Some businesses develop automated systems and find ways to
standardize tasks to increase productivity, but these factors are not related to motivating employees. Offering
inflexible working hours is not likely to motivate employees.
SOURCE: EC:013 Explain the concept of productivity
SOURCE: LAP-EC-018—Make the Most of It (Productivity)
38. B
The culture in which you are raised. Values come from many places, including family, friends, culture,
education, religion, media influences, and significant events in your life or in society. They can also come from
one's personality, temperament, and preferences. They are not as likely to come from the movies you enjoy
watching, the actions and choices you take, or the values of your workplace.
SOURCE: EI:126 Assess personal behavior and values
SOURCE: LAP-EI-126—Assess Yourself (Assessing Your Personal Behavior and Values)

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

10

39. A
Being consistent and ongoing. Being transparent isn't something people can do once and then forget about—
instead, it must happen on a consistent, ongoing basis. Avoiding half-truths, giving people the information they
need, and allowing for conflict are all characteristics of open, honest communication, but they are not illustrated
in this example.
SOURCE: EI:129 Foster open, honest communication
SOURCE: LAP-EI-129—Can We Talk? (Fostering Open, Honest Communication)
40. C
Summarize and restate their key points. If you want to be sure that you have understood what someone has
said, a good way to do so is to summarize and restate their key points to make sure you have accurately heard
and comprehended them. If your restatement does not align with what the other person has said, they will offer
further clarification. While it is okay to stop the conversation to ask a question once in a while, if you do so
repeatedly, the conversation will stall and the other person will become frustrated by your interruptions. Leaning
forward demonstrates interest, but it does not necessarily help ensure understanding. Also, nodding and smiling
show you are listening but do not necessarily help ensure you are understanding.
SOURCE: CO:017 Demonstrate active listening skills
SOURCE: LAP-CO-017—Listen Up! (Demonstrating Active Listening Skills)
41. C
Changing jobs. There are times when the best way to enhance career progression is to change jobs. A different
job may offer more possibility for advancement or provide additional training. New jobs may include a better
salary or more fringe benefits. When employees feel that they have no place to go in their current positions,
changing jobs may be the best way to advance in their careers. Most employees need to accept criticism at
some time during their careers. All employees are expected to work safely and follow the rules.
SOURCE: PD:035 Identify skills needed to enhance career progression
SOURCE: Unitemps. (2022, December 16). Six practical tips for career progression. Retrieved September 21,
2023, from https://www.unitemps.com/career-advice/six-practical-tips-for-career-progression/
42. D
Currency exchange rates. Inflation influences the balance of trade between countries through its effect on
currency exchange rates. Currency exchange rates are a measure of the value of one country’s money in
relation to another’s. When inflation is much higher in one country than in another, businesses in that country
are in a weaker competitive position. Menu costs are the expenses involved with changing prices; they are not a
direct influence on the balance of trade. The Consumer Price Index is an inflation-monitoring tool; it does not
affect inflation. The availability of commodities may affect inflation, but inflation does not affect the availability of
commodities.
SOURCE: EC:083 Describe the economic impact of inflation on business
SOURCE: LAP-EC-083—Up, Up, and Away (Inflation)

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

11

43. A
Order of their importance. Prioritizing involves ranking things in the order of their relative importance. Individuals
evaluate many factors when prioritizing their work, including due dates and the time that it will take to complete
a task. Categorizing tasks in alphabetical order and categorizing them in numerical order are not effective ways
to prioritize tasks. Sometimes, the most difficult or unpleasant tasks are the most important to complete;
therefore, prioritizing work in relation to the level of enjoyment you have while performing the task is not an
effective method to use to set priorities.
SOURCE: OP:228 Organize and prioritize work
SOURCE: MacKay, J. (2020, May 5). The "everything is important" paradox: 9 practical methods for how to
prioritize your work (and time). Retrieved September 21, 2023, from
https://blog.rescuetime.com/how-to-prioritize/
44. B
Focus on the evidence that supports her conclusions. An analytical report is a document that explains and
evaluates an issue, opportunity, or problem. When developing an analytical report that addresses a
controversial issue or contains information that readers might disagree with, Maggie should provide evidence
and logical arguments that explain and support her conclusions. By providing evidence and logical arguments,
Maggie is more likely to persuade readers to accept the conclusions. Colorful graphics, a bibliography, and
unrelated facts are not likely to sway board members into agreeing with the conclusions presented in the report.
SOURCE: CO:185 Write analytical reports (i.e., reports that examine a problem/issue and recommend an
action)
SOURCE: Layfield, E. (2017, February 18). How to write an analytical report. Retrieved September 21, 2023,
from https://penandthepad.com/write-analytical-report-5142708.html
45. D
Business analysis. Business analysis is the investigation into the operations of a business to reveal the causes
behind specific results and the effects of those results on the business. Managerial accounting is the process of
identifying and analyzing financial information to help managers make informed business decisions. Becky is
not recommending solutions to her boss; she is simply doing research. Therefore, she is not performing
managerial accounting. Data normalization is the process of organizing data to reduce data redundancy, and
marketing research is research related to a company's marketing efforts. Becky's boss is not asking her to
perform either of these types of work.
SOURCE: OP:327 Discuss the nature of business analysis
SOURCE: International Institute of Business Analysis. (2023). What is business analysis? Retrieved September
21, 2023, from https://www.iiba.org/professional-development/career-centre/what-is-businessanalysis/
46. B
Consider project goals. While there are some general parts of any project that you can evaluate, you should
look at which measures are most important for your specific project. To start, consider project goals. Your most
important evaluation criteria will likely relate directly to your project's objectives. Communicating lessons
learned, performing gap analysis, and focusing on financial data are not ways to start determining which parts
of a project are successful.
SOURCE: OP:521 Evaluate project success
SOURCE: LAP-OP-521—Making the Grade (Evaluating Project Success)

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

12

47. A
Elevators. Governments develop regulations to ensure the public's safety. Government regulations require
businesses to have their elevators inspected on a regular basis by a government agent or independent entity to
ensure that elevators are running correctly. During the inspection, the inspector might identify problems with the
elevators that compromise the employees' and visitors' safety. By identifying the problems, the business can
repair the elevators so they operate correctly and are in compliance. Photocopiers, computer networks, and
portable cameras are equipment rather than components of the facility.
SOURCE: OP:339 Discuss legal considerations in operations
SOURCE: Schindler. (2023). Tips for riders. Retrieved September 21, 2023,
from https://www.schindler.com/us/internet/en/about-us/safety/tips-for-riders.html#button
48. D
Operations management. Chief operations officer, process improvement specialist, and call center supervisor
are operations management positions. They are not general management, business analytics, or human
resources management positions. Operations management professionals are responsible for planning,
organizing, coordinating, and controlling the resources needed to produce and provide a business's goods
and/or services.
SOURCE: PD:297 Discuss employment opportunities in business management and administration
SOURCE: LAP-PD-297—Career Opportunities in Business Management and Administration
49. A
Providing the right technology. An organization can promote knowledge management by providing helpful tools
such as a company intranet or other knowledge management technology. Rewarding individual achievement
can discourage knowledge management; instead, top-level management should recognize collaboration and
teamwork. Instead of encouraging a quiet workplace, organizations should encourage communication and
regular meetings. Finally, valuing competitiveness can decrease knowledge management because employees
might look out for their own self-interest rather than share knowledge with one another.
SOURCE: KM:002 Discuss the role of ethics in knowledge management
SOURCE: LAP-KM-002—Know What's Right (Ethics in Knowledge Management)
50. A
A natural disaster. A natural disaster is something that might be addressed in a project plan's changemanagement document because it is an unforeseen circumstance that can't be planned for. A holiday is a
known, scheduled occurrence—a project manager can plan ahead and schedule around it. A project's purpose
should not change once it is underway. A team member receiving a requested promotion would fall under risk
management because it is a known possibility.
SOURCE: OP:001 Develop project plan
SOURCE: LAP-OP-001—Chart Your Course (Developing a Project Plan)

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

13

51. C
Introduction. The purpose of a research report is to summarize information gathered from an investigation.
Companies often review the research report and use it to make business decisions. Research reports contain
several sections. The introduction states the problem, purpose, and significance of the investigation. Often, the
introduction includes background or historical information and statistical data that have already been gathered,
which relates to the problem or purpose of the study. Because the statement focuses on a study that York
University has already published, the statement should be included in the background component of the report's
introduction. The methodology section focuses on the procedures used to gather the information for the study.
The conclusion discusses the research findings and may include recommendations. The analysis is provided in
the results section of a research report.
SOURCE: CO:186 Write research reports
SOURCE: Center for Innovation in Research and Teaching. (n.d.). Components of a research paper. Retrieved
September 21, 2023,
from https://cirt.gcu.edu/research/developmentresources/tutorials/researchpaper
52. D
A poor reputation. Even when no laws have been broken, unethical behavior still reflects poorly on individuals
and organizations, damaging their reputations. Unethical behavior generally does not lead to an increased
customer base. Imprisonment is a negative consequence that would follow an illegal action. Decreased
managerial authority is not necessarily related to unethical actions.
SOURCE: EI:132 Model ethical behavior
SOURCE: LAP-EI-132—Practice What You Preach (Modeling Ethical Behavior)
53. B
Trash bags, sanitizer, and light bulbs. All types of businesses keep maintenance supplies on hand to ensure
that the business is clean and that it runs smoothly. Trash bags, sanitizer, light bulbs, batteries, cleaning items,
paper towels, and mops are maintenance items that businesses keep on hand. Pens may be classified as
maintenance or office supplies. Computers, conveyer belts, and office furniture are capital goods or equipment
that businesses use to operate smoothly. Sportswear items (e.g., shorts, T-shirts) are most likely resale
inventory.
SOURCE: OP:336 Discuss types of inventory
SOURCE: Magloff, L. (2016, October 26). Types of inventory for an organization. Retrieved September 21,
2023, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/types-inventory-organization-14109.html
54. B
Supply chain networks are more complex and show how information and materials flow back and forth among
various supply chain partners. Supply chain networks include a greater number of partners than the basic
supply chain outline and show more complex relationships among these partners. Supply chain networks
involve every company or entity that is involved in the production of a certain product or service, including
companies involved in both upstream and downstream processes. The supply chain network is an evolved
version of the basic supply chain and is considered more modern and sophisticated. The supply chain network
is generally accepted as the new way of viewing the supply chain and is in widespread use today.
SOURCE: OP:479 Describe supply chain networks
SOURCE: Forrest, M. (2023, September 21). What is supply chain network design and how does it work?
Retrieved September 22, 2023, from https://carto.com/blog/what-is-supply-chain-network-designhow-does-it-work

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

14

55. C
Define what needs to be accomplished. A project charter is a document completed at the beginning of a project
that lays the foundation of the project. It includes defining what needs to be accomplished during the course of
the project. However, the project charter generally does not get into the detail of scheduling key deadlines and
breaking down work into smaller activities. Those would be determined after as a part of the project planning
process. Documenting what went well during a project happens after a project has been completed, whereas a
project charter is created during the initiation phase.
SOURCE: PJ:005 Initiate project
SOURCE: Gillis, A.S. (2023, March). Project charter. [Video & article]. Retrieved September 22, 2023, from
https://www.techtarget.com/searchcio/definition/project-charter
56. B
Tax laws generally require that the insured demonstrate that they will be materially harmed if financial losses
occur to the captive insurer. Captive insurance companies are wholly owned and operated by the members they
insure. Tax laws generally require that the members that are insured by captive insurers demonstrate that they
will be materially harmed if financial losses occur to the captive insurer. Businesses or industries often form
captive insurance companies for one of three reasons: 1) because there is no other insurance offered in the
industry; 2) to obtain cheaper insurance; 3) to gain more control over their insurance. Businesses do not
generally create captive insurance companies for the sole purpose of evading tax laws. A common tax law
governing captive insurers requires that captive insurance companies actually function as insurance
companies—not just as reserve accounts or “rainy day funds.” There are several small advantages to forming a
captive insurance company, including the ability to be taxed on investment earnings rather than on gross
income, among others.
SOURCE: RM:043 Discuss legal considerations affecting risk management
SOURCE: International Risk Management Institute, Inc. (2018, August 8). What is captive insurance? Retrieved
September 22, 2023, from https://www.captive.com/captives-101/what-is-captive-insurance
57. C
Networking with others. Networking involves connecting with others for the purpose of professional
development or advancement. Many people obtain job leads by talking with family, friends, school counselors
and alumni, former supervisors and coworkers, etc. In the example, Tracy's friend worked for the company that
she was interested in working for. Tracy was not setting up a meeting; instead, she hoped that David could
influence the hiring manager to set up an interview. Although volunteering and interning are ways to network
with others, Tracy was not engaging in those activities in the situation described.
SOURCE: PD:037 Use networking techniques to identify employment opportunities
SOURCE: JobMonkey. (2019, December 12). 9 reasons to join a professional organization. Retrieved
September 21, 2023, from https://www.jobmonkey.com/join-professional-organization/
58. C
Citizens are not allowed to bring fresh fruits and vegetables back with them upon reentering the country.
Customs regulations are regulations regarding the import and export of goods into a country. An example of a
customs regulation is the prohibition on bringing fresh fruits and vegetables into the country after traveling. This
is to prevent disease and pests from crossing country lines. Travel advisories, fines for hiring illegal immigrants,
and vaccination recommendations are also related to travel and borders but are not customs regulations.
SOURCE: BL:126 Describe the nature of customs regulations
SOURCE: U.S. Customs and Border Protection. (2019, February 15). Bringing food into the U.S. Retrieved
September 20, 2023, from https://www.cbp.gov/travel/international-visitors/agricultural-items

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

15

59. A
Efficiency. Creative thinking often results in suggestions for operational changes that serve to increase
efficiency and reduce business expenses. Suggestions that tend to bring conflict, increased costs, and
increased losses will probably be unwelcome.
SOURCE: PD:012 Demonstrate appropriate creativity
SOURCE: LAP-PD-012—Imagine That (Demonstrating Creativity)
60. C
Concurrent control. Concurrent controls monitor business activities as they are being performed. The assistant
bank manager watched and listened to their tellers carrying out their jobs, realized that there was a problem,
and immediately corrected the problem. Preventive controls take place before a business activity takes place,
while feedback controls occur after a business activity has been completed. Post controls, more commonly
referred to as postcontrols, are feedback controls.
SOURCE: SM:004 Describe the nature of managerial control (control process, types of control, what is
controlled)
SOURCE: Palmer, J. (2019, June 6). Examples of control methods in management. Retrieved September 22,
2023, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/examples-concurrent-control-management-80471.html
61. C
Cloud computing. Cloud-based systems started gaining popularity around 2010, allowing employees to access
their company's data and software from anywhere. Augmented reality is a technology that superimposes a
computer-generated image on a user's view of the real world, while automation is the use of largely automatic
equipment in a manufacturing or other type of process. Radio frequency identification technology uses radio
waves to identify people or objects. Augmented reality, automation, and radio frequency identification are not
technologies that make software accessible no matter where employees are located.
SOURCE: NF:130 Utilize project-management software
SOURCE: Chai, W. (2022). Cloud computing. Retrieved October 14, 2023, from
http://searchcloudcomputing.techtarget.com/definition/cloud-computing
62. C
Not sharing confidential information. Although being honest is an important part of being trustworthy, it's just as
important to keep confidential information to yourself. By not sharing the information you overheard, you are
building trust in your relationship with your boss. Taking responsibility for your mistakes, keeping your promises,
and communicating often and openly are other techniques used to build trust.
SOURCE: EI:128 Build trust in relationships
SOURCE: LAP-EI-128—Trust in Me (Building Trust in Relationships)
63. B
Share their work-related tacit knowledge. Tacit knowledge is expertise that is often difficult to explain or
quantify. Sharing tacit knowledge with coworkers can help the company improve its performance, develop
innovative processes, and achieve a competitive advantage. Employees are more likely to share knowledge
when management encourages collaboration. However, if a company has a negative work culture, employees
tend to be on guard and may be fearful about losing their jobs. Under these circumstances, employees are
more likely to keep helpful information to themselves. Companies with negative work cultures tend to have
higher employee turnover rates. This happens because dissatisfied employees are more likely to use their
personal leave time to look for and accept jobs with other companies. The ability to complete assignments on
time depends on a variety of factors including the interdependence of work activities, workload, etc.
SOURCE: KM:002 Discuss the role of ethics in knowledge management
SOURCE: Chen, J. (2021, February 16). Intellectual capital. Retrieved September 21, 2023, from
https://www.investopedia.com/terms/i/intellectual_capital.asp
Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

16

64. A
Think of a time when she had difficulty with an assignment, and tell the classmate she knows how they feel.
Empathy is the ability to put yourself in another person's place. This can help you respect others because you
are able to better understand other people. If Emily thinks about a time when she has felt the same as her
classmate, she is showing empathy. Letting her classmate copy her answers or asking them how much they
studied would not show empathy. Telling the classmate to sign up for after-school tutoring may be helpful, but it
is not empathetic.
SOURCE: EI:036 Treat others with dignity and respect
SOURCE: LAP-EI-036—Everyone's Worthy (Treating Others With Dignity and Respect)
65. B
It helps you determine your profit. If you don't pay attention to or maintain records, you'll have no idea how
much your business is selling or where you're losing money. It's important to maintain good records so you can
determine your profit. Records help you keep track of sales, prices, and inventory, all of which help you
determine how much money your business is actually making. Record maintenance isn't just important for tax
purposes—it's helpful with all aspects of business planning! Internal record maintenance is important for all
companies, whether they're big, small, new, or old. In fact, record maintenance can help a small company
identify opportunities and grow into a larger company. While it's important to keep some records indefinitely
(income tax returns, for example), some records only need to be kept for a much shorter amount of time. For
example, there's no need to keep every receipt forever.
SOURCE: NF:014 Monitor internal records for business information
SOURCE: IRS. (2023, March 22). Why should I keep records? Retrieved September 21, 2023,
from https://www.irs.gov/businesses/small-businesses-self-employed/why-should-i-keep-records
66. C
Integration. Members of a well-integrated supply chain have open lines of communication and are able to
complete supply chain processes on time, within budget, and matching quality objectives. Integration in supply
chain management involves ensuring that all supply chain members are working toward collective goals and
participate in the free flow of information. Operations involves the day-to-day activities and processes in the
supply chain and monitors such things as inventory levels, for example. Purchasing/Supply involves managing
sources, materials, and prices that are required for the supply chain to create profit, maintain quality, and stay
cost-effective. Distribution/Logistics focuses on the shipments and transportation of goods throughout the
supply chain.
SOURCE: OP:303 Discuss the nature of supply chain management
SOURCE: Wisner, J.D., Tan, K., & Leong, G.K. (2019). Principles of supply chain management (5th ed.)
[Lesson 1-4]. Boston, MA: Cengage Learning, Inc.
67. C
Share relevant information. To maintain favorable relationships with its vendors, a business should share
relevant information. Open, frequent, and honest communication can build trust and respect, which facilitate
long-term business relationships. A competitive orientation may help the business achieve short-term goals, but
may damage long-term vendor relationships. Automating ordering processes and requesting volume discounts
will not always help the business maintain long-term relationships with its vendors.
SOURCE: OP:241 Maintain vendor/supplier relationships
SOURCE: Klugerman, Y. (2017, November 14). Top 7 ways to build and maintain strong vendor relationships.
Retrieved September 21, 2023, from https://feedvisor.com/resources/e-commerce-strategies/top-7ways-build-strong-relationships-vendors/

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

17

68. D
Accept change. Innovation is the process of creating new or more effective products, processes, services,
technologies, or ideas. Creating something new requires change. When a business encourages its employees
to learn about new processes, customer wants, market needs, and trends, innovation is more likely to occur.
Exhibiting bias and suppressing ideas may have a negative effect on innovation. Following certain types of
business procedures is important for creating a safe and fair work environment and does not necessarily affect
innovative processes.
SOURCE: SM:094 Describe relationship among innovation, learning, and change
SOURCE: Green, N. (2021, July 14). How to encourage innovation in the workplace. Retrieved September 22,
2023, from https://www.wework.com/ideas/professional-development/creativity-culture/how-toencourage-innovation-in-the-workplace
69. B
Safe to use. Businesses have an ethical obligation to make sure the products they sell to customers are safe to
use. A lack of ethical quality-management practices can lead to defective (imperfect or faulty) products. While
product defects are impossible to avoid completely, it’s important that businesses take care to limit production of
defective products—for themselves and for the safety of consumers. Businesses do not have an ethical
obligation to make sure the products they sell to customers are inexpensive, name-brand, or marketed well.
SOURCE: QM:012 Discuss ethical considerations in quality management
SOURCE: LAP-QM-012—Quality Is the Best Policy (Ethics in Quality Management)
70. C
Yes, employees should be well informed and able to help customers. One good way to have a customer service
mindset is to be well informed about all aspects of a business. Although it is good to call a customer by their
name, if known, this is not always possible. Employees often have brief conversations with customers. They
should pay attention to customers regardless of how busy they are.
SOURCE: CR:004 Demonstrate a customer service mindset
SOURCE: Hudson, M. (2018, May 23). How product knowledge can increase sales. Retrieved September 20,
2023, from https://www.thebalancesmb.com/benefits-of-product-knowledge-2890302
71. C
Engaged. By looking at the speaker and laughing while he tells a humorous story, the audience is showing that
they are engaged in the presentation. There is no indication that the audience is informed, inspired, or
persuaded.
SOURCE: CO:025 Make oral presentations
SOURCE: LAP-CO-025—Well Said! (Making Oral Presentations)
72. B
Tamara recognizes how hard her team is working, so she provides lunch for the team members. Effective
project managers motivate their team members to reach project milestones and goals. Motivation often involves
offering rewards (e.g., lunch), which expresses the project manager's appreciation for the team's hard work and
can encourage team members to keep striving to achieve the team's goals. Marcus is providing Thomas with
evaluative feedback and guidance. Ryan is delegating duties to Samantha. Zoey is communicating information
to team members.
SOURCE: PJ:007 Manage project team
SOURCE: Pandey, S. (2022, March 21). How to motivate your team for better performance in your project?
Retrieved September 22, 2023, from https://www.projectcentral.com/blog/motivate-project-team/

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

18

73. A
Horizontal. Horizontal communication is information exchanged between persons on the same job level (e.g.,
manager to manager, or salesperson to salesperson). Upward communication involves sending messages to
those with more authority in the organization (e.g., subordinate to manager). On the other hand, downward
communication occurs when a person of authority sends a message to a person of less authority (e.g., manager
to subordinate). Personal communication involves messages that are not directly related to business activities.
For example, personal communication occurs when a group of coworkers discuss where to go for lunch.
SOURCE: CO:014 Explain the nature of staff communication
SOURCE: The Business Communication. (2023). What is horizontal communication? Effective horizontal
communication. Retrieved September 20, 2023, from https://thebusinesscommunication.com/whatis-horizontal-communication/
74. A
Wider availability of data. Risk modeling not only relies on data, but it also makes data more useful. The rise of
available data has made risk modeling more possible and more necessary. Increased regulation rather than
decreased regulation has contributed to the rise of risk modeling. More expensive technology has not increased
the use of risk modeling. Finally, less focus on efficiency has also not increased the use of risk modeling.
SOURCE: RM:042 Describe the use of technology in risk management
SOURCE: Risk and Compliance. (2023). Technology risk management. Retrieved September 22, 2023, from
https://riskandcompliancemagazine.com/technology-risk-management/
75. C
Communicate their roles and responsibilities to them. An important aspect of the project manager's role is to
communicate to team members their individual roles and responsibilities for executing the project. When team
members understand what is expected of them, the project is more likely to run smoothly and achieve its goals.
Providing evaluation forms, asking team members if they like their assignments, and correcting team members'
mistakes for them will not help the team members perform their work efficiently.
SOURCE: PJ:007 Manage project team
SOURCE: Project Management Qualification. (2022, December 17). 5 characteristics to build a successful
project team. Retrieved September 22, 2023, from
https://www.projectmanagementqualification.com/blog/2019/12/17/5-characteristics-build-successfulproject-team/
76. A
Monitor regulations. Risk management is a business activity that involves the planning, controlling, preventing,
and procedures to limit business losses. If a business does not comply with laws, the government may fine the
business, which could result in substantial financial losses. Therefore, it is important for a business to
continuously monitor government regulations to ensure that it is in compliance, and make changes, if
necessary, to become compliant. Evaluating competitors, obtaining customer feedback and allocating operating
funds are not actions that will reduce risks associated with noncompliance.
SOURCE: RM:043 Discuss legal considerations affecting risk management
SOURCE: Compliance Quest. (2018, May 24). Minimizing non-compliance. Retrieved September 22, 2023,
from https://www.compliancequest.com/blog/minimizing-non-compliance/

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

19

77. A
Using the work breakdown structure to replace the project schedule. While the work breakdown structure
(WBS) will provide a comprehensive view of the project's milestones and deliverables, it cannot replace the
project schedule because it does not always sequence or organize work in order of performance. WBS
components should be listed as deliverables (rather than activities or tasks). Many teams find creating a WBS
dictionary is a valuable part of the WBS development process. Including relevant individuals in the WBS
development process is recommended.
SOURCE: PJ:006 Prepare work breakdown structure (WBS)
SOURCE: Mathis, M. (n.d.). Work breakdown structure (WBS) purpose, process and pitfalls. Retrieved
September 22, 2023, from https://www.projectsmart.co.uk/work-breakdown-structure-purposeprocess-pitfalls.php
78. A
Insider trading. Insider trading involves leaking information to others that is not known to the public. Insider
trading laws vary by country, but violators could face imprisonment. In Joseph's situation, he told his sister
about the company's bankruptcy before it was made public so she could try to sell her stock before she lost
money. Embezzlement involves theft of valuables that have been entrusted to another's care. Money laundering
involves legitimizing money that was obtained illegally. A bribe is an illegal payment intended to secure
business or products in return.
SOURCE: FI:356 Explain legal considerations for finance
SOURCE: Fedorov, S. (2017, July 27). The negative effects of insider trading. Retrieved September 25, 2023,
from https://pocketsense.com/negative-effects-insider-trading-8055278.html
79. D
Produces only 3.4 defects per million parts. A popular quality management framework is Six Sigma, named for
the statistical term that indicates only 3.4 defects per million. PDCA uses the plan-do-check-adjust approach.
ITIL uses an IT-oriented approach. The company has not created its own quality management framework.
SOURCE: QM:002 Describe the nature of quality management frameworks (e.g., Six Sigma, ITIL, CMMI)
SOURCE: University Alliance. (2021, January 12). What is Six Sigma? Retrieved September 22, 2023, from
http://www.villanovau.com/resources/six-sigma/what-is-six-sigma/#.VsXLE_IrKUk
80. B
Unstable government. An unstable government can negatively impact a country's economy and international
relations, making world trade difficult to conduct. The foreign exchange rate could have either a beneficial or
negative impact on world trade, depending on the currencies involved. A difference in language can make world
trade more difficult, but developed nations often speak more than one language, and translators and translation
software make language barriers easy to overcome. Technological advances generally impact world trade in
positive ways for developed countries.
SOURCE: EC:113 Describe the impact of the political environment on world trade
SOURCE: Juneja, P. (n.d.). Impact of political stability on businesses and working professionals. Retrieved
September 21, 2023, from https://www.managementstudyguide.com/impact-of-political-stability-onbusinesses-and-professionals.htm

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

20

81. C
A goal. Businesses use process thinking to define and develop a system to accomplish a specific goal or task.
Every process should have a goal, and its outputs should be measured against that goal. Each individual
process should also support the overall goals of an organization. A process doesn't have a specific deadline,
since it is a technique used to achieve goals and meet deadlines. Each business process should have a single
owner who is responsible for the output and functionality of the process. A business process should have a
clearly defined, limited scope.
SOURCE: OP:474 Discuss business process thinking and its impact
SOURCE: Pearson, S. (2021). Importance of process thinking in business management. Retrieved September
21, 2023, from https://tallyfy.com/process-thinking/
82. D
Sky High. Investors often calculate the price-to-cash flow ratio (P/CF) of potential investments to compare their
relative worth. If particular investment's P/CF is lower compared to others in the same industry, the market has
probably undervalued that stock. To determine which of the four airline's stock is most likely to be undervalued,
calculate the price-to-cash flow ratio of each company. The price-to-cash flow ratio can be found by dividing the
current stock price by the cash flow per share (Sky High: $14.36 / $5.21 = 2.76; Smooth Flying: $22.78 / $4.12
= 5.53; Soar the Sky: $18.50 / $3.59 = 5.15; White Clouds: $25.81 / $6.94 = 3.72). Since Sky High's price-tocash flow ratio is lowest, it is most likely to be undervalued.
SOURCE: FI:541 Interpret cash-flow statements
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2022, March 21). Price-to-cash-flow (P/CF) ratio? Retrieved September 21, 2023,
from http://www.investopedia.com/terms/p/price-to-cash-flowratio.asp
83. D
Inefficiency. When a business is overstaffed, it's wasting money on unnecessary wages, benefits, training, etc.
It's inefficient and will begin to lose competitiveness. Understaffing creates poor customer service, exhausted
workers, and low morale.
SOURCE: SM:065 Describe managerial considerations in staffing
SOURCE: LAP-SM-065—Dream Team Maker (Staffing)
84. D
Retrieve Peter's work-related usernames and passwords. When an employee leaves a company, there is a
security risk if that employee still has access to the company's digital assets. Peter's usernames and passwords
to company social media accounts, websites, etc. should be retrieved and either deleted or changed. Removing
backups of all of Peter's data and files is not practical because those data and files might be important to the
company as a whole. Peter's files should not necessarily be deleted immediately because they might be needed
by the company. Finally, storing Peter's personal information in a database will not necessarily protect its digital
assets.
SOURCE: OP:517 Comply with strategies for protecting business' digital assets (e.g., website, social media,
email, etc.)
SOURCE: AuditBoard. (2021, June 9). How to protect your digital assets in 2022. Retrieved September 22,
2023, from https://www.auditboard.com/blog/how-to-protect-your-digital-assets/

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

21

85. A
Competition. Competition is one reason that businesses might need to change their processes. When
YourOffice entered the market, Premiere Office Supplies had to change its sales process because it can no
longer rely on its previous process (relying on reorders). While growth, technology, and regulation are also
reasons that a business might need to change its processes, these reasons are not related to the given
situation.
SOURCE: OP:476 Explain the causes of business process changes
SOURCE: Gleeson, P. (2019, February 12). Factors that may cause change in an organization. Retrieved
September 21, 2023, from http://smallbusiness.chron.com/factors-may-cause-change-organization203.html
86. D
Financial. Financial records are documents containing information related to the amount of money going into
and out of a business. Asset records are documents that track the value of something a business owns. Budget
records relate to a business's forecasted income and expense, and tax records are documents about monies
that individuals and businesses must pay to the government.
SOURCE: NF:001 Describe the nature of business records
SOURCE: LAP-NF-001—Record It (Business Records)
87. D
A manufacturing firm tracks its inventory using a digital warehouse management system. Digital warehouse
management systems help companies distribute products more efficiently by tracking inventory in real-time—a
technology that allows for better supply chain management. Hiring new employees, weather events, and new
laws are not examples of technology influencing supply chain management.
SOURCE: OP:478 Describe the impact of technology on supply chain management
SOURCE: Plex DemandCaster. (2021, November 16). The impact of technology in supply chain management.
Retrieved September 21, 2023, from https://www.plex.com/blog/impact-technology-supply-chainmanagement
88. B
Conducting personal interviews. Tacit knowledge is knowledge consisting of personal opinions, experiences,
expertise, or understanding that is not easily articulated, stored, or quantified. By conducting personal
interviews with employees, management might be able to obtain knowledge from employees about their on-thejob experiences—experiences that can ultimately affect the success of the business. Listening to employees'
experiences might reveal problems and issues that they encounter while doing their jobs. Holding customer
focus groups, developing a competitive analysis, and obtaining statistical reports from the internet will not
capture employees' tacit knowledge.
SOURCE: KM:005 Identify techniques that can be used to capture and transfer knowledge in an organization
SOURCE: Oragui, D. (2023, April 19). Tacit knowledge: Definitions, examples, and importance. Retrieved
September 21, 2023, from https://helpjuice.com/blog/tacit-knowledge
89. C
Change happens one person at a time. Change management is necessary because organizational change
occurs on a person-by-person basis. The people at the organization make changes, not the organization itself.
Successful organizational change is the cumulative result of individual actions. Employees may be instructed to
do something illegal or unethical, in which case they would not follow those directions. Rapid changes would
lower employee morale. People do not embrace change automatically—in fact, they often resist change at first.
SOURCE: SM:096 Explain the change-management lifecycle
SOURCE: Prosci. (2020). What is change management and how does it work? Retrieved September 22, 2023,
from https://www.prosci.com/resources/articles/what-is-change-management-and-how-does-it-work
Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

22

90. B
Initiating action. The directing function of management is the process of providing guidance to workers as they
work. When a manager is directing, they are initiating action to get the work done. Setting goals occurs during
the planning function. Identifying resources is part of the planning function. Evaluating feedback is a part of the
control function.
SOURCE: SM:066 Discuss managerial considerations in directing
SOURCE: LAP-SM-066—Take Action (Managerial Considerations in Directing)
91. A
You should never include personal information that is inaccurate. It is important to be completely honest and
transparent when filling out job applications. Besides being unethical, lying on a job application can lead to
serious consequences. If your employer finds out that you included false information on its job application, you
will likely be fired—and have trouble finding jobs in the future. Most employers ask applicants to disclose
whether they have been convicted of any felonies in the previous five years. It is not okay to omit any previous
felony convictions, nor is it okay to omit a previous job if you left on bad terms. Job applicants that are under 18
usually need to obtain a work permit to apply for jobs. They do not typically need a cosigner on applications.
SOURCE: PD:027 Complete a job application
SOURCE: Doyle, A. (2021, October 4). Information required to complete a job application. Retrieved September
21, 2023, from https://www.thebalance.com/information-required-to-complete-a-job-application2061573
92. C
Waste reduction. Businesses often collect and analyze information to reduce waste throughout their
organizations. In the example, the waste involved the use of paper. By reducing waste, a business can save
money, increase its profits, and often protect the environment. The analysis does not provide insight about the
business's return on investment, efficiency levels, or resale goods.
SOURCE: OP:327 Discuss the nature of business analysis
SOURCE: MeasureBusiness.com. (2008-2017). Business analysis toolkit. Retrieved September 21, 2023, from
http://www.measurebusiness.com/
93. B
Accountability. Accountability involves ensuring that organizations are held responsible for their privacy policies.
Organizations should establish at least one person who is in charge of monitoring compliance with these
policies. Openness refers to being forthcoming about the existence and nature of privacy policies. Collection
limitation means that companies should collect only the data that are necessary to conduct business. Finally,
purpose specification means that the purpose of any information gathering should be determined at the time
that it is collected.
SOURCE: OP:441 Explain information privacy, security, and confidentiality considerations in business
SOURCE: UNCTADOnline. (2016, April 14). Data protection and privacy. [Video]. Retrieved September 21,
2023, from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6vNxslcf9AE

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

23

94. D
A risk assessment. An important aspect of risk management is conducting a risk assessment, which is the
process of determining the level of risk associated with an action or product. Sometimes as a result of
conducting a risk assessment, a manager may find that a perceived risk is much less threatening than they
originally thought. For example, although Sasha's team members were alarmed by rumors of bear attacks, she
may discover while conducting her risk assessment that the rumors are untrue and that there is little chance of
bear attack at the park. An environmental scan is a process in which businesses gather information about their
surroundings, analyze that information, and determine the future impact of that information. Risk communication
focuses on how to effectively communicate information associated with risk. A SWOT analysis is a marketing
tool that investigates a business's strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats in an organized fashion.
SOURCE: RM:041 Explain the role of ethics in risk management
SOURCE: LAP-RM-041—Manage Risk the Right Way (Ethics in Risk Management)
95. B
Shipping costs tend to be lower if a product is manufactured closer to customers. This is especially the case for
heavy or large products. Even if raw materials need to be shipped to the manufacturing center from great
distances, these raw materials are usually much cheaper and easier to ship than large manufactured items.
Proximity to target markets also allows companies to respond more quickly to customer demands. Labor costs
tend to be higher in areas where the local population can afford to purchase the products. Customers are not
likely to accept poor quality from purchased products even if they know the people who work at a manufacturing
plant. Packaging costs relating to which language is used are not likely to affect where manufacturing takes
place.
SOURCE: OP:480 Discuss global supply chain issues
SOURCE: Wisner, J.D., Tan, K., & Leong, G.K. (2019). Principles of supply chain management (5th ed.)
[Lesson 11-2g]. Boston, MA: Cengage Learning, Inc.
96. B
Mediation. Mediation is the process in which a neutral third party works to help opposing parties resolve a
conflict. Arbitration is similar to mediation but can involve a panel of neutral third-party members who make a
binding decision to solve the dispute. Litigation occurs when a dispute is settled in court. Mitigation is an aspect
of decision-making in litigation.
SOURCE: BL:161 Discuss the arbitration/mediation process
SOURCE: Shonk, K. (2023, August 7). What is an arbitration agreement? Retrieved September 21, 2023, from
https://www.pon.harvard.edu/daily/conflict-resolution/what-is-an-arbitration-agreement/
97. A
It intentionally ignores past and future events. Process thinking involves focusing on the steps it takes to
complete a task, as it seeks to achieve efficiency by setting standard operation procedures in place. With
process thinking, the focus is on the specific tasks in front of you rather than the overall bigger picture. This
empowers people to take small actions now, which can move them closer to larger goals not yet on the horizon.
Because the focus is on the present, process thinking intentionally ignores past and future events, which is
considered to be one of the disadvantages of process thinking. Three pros of process thinking are that it helps
solve complex challenges, increases profitability and efficiency, and improves quality and customer loyalty.
SOURCE: OP:474 Discuss business process thinking and its impact
SOURCE: Drew, C. (2023, July 11). What is process thinking? (Examples, pros, and cons). Retrieved
September 21, 2023, from https://helpfulprofessor.com/process-thinking/

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1292

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

24

98. B
Human. Business process design is influenced by human factors, such as stress and fatigue. A business
process may not work if it causes stress to employees or if they are too fatigued to complete their work properly.
These are not examples of technological, regulatory, or government factors.
SOURCE: OP:475 Describe the factors that influence business process design
SOURCE: Taylor, H. (2017, September 26). Factors that affect process design. Retrieved September 21, 2023,
from http://www.ehow.com/list_7444011_factors-affect-process-design.html
99. A
Frictional. Frictional unemployment is always present in the economy and occurs because there are always
workers who are in transition. Transitions occur for a variety of reasons. Avery is transitioning from being a
college student to being a member of the workforce. Other transitions might include reentering the workforce
after raising children or a change of career path. Structural unemployment occurs when the demand for certain
types of workers declines and is often due to technology advancements and the need for new skills. Cyclical
unemployment is the result of changes in the economic and business cycles. For example, if the GDP declines,
unemployment tends to increase. Relational is not a type of unemployment.
SOURCE: EC:082 Discuss the impact of a nation's unemployment rates
SOURCE: Kagan, J. (2022, December 18). Frictional unemployment. Retrieved September 20, 2023,
from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/f/frictionalunemployment.asp
100. D
Organizing. The organizing function of management focuses on setting up the way the business's work will be
done. Organizing involves determining what resources the business needs and how the various resources will
work together to accomplish the business's goals in the most efficient ways. Staffing is the management
function of finding workers for the business. Directing is the management function of providing guidance to
workers and work projects. Controlling is the management function that monitors the work effort.
SOURCE: SM:064 Explain managerial considerations in organizing
SOURCE: Norman, L. (2019, January 28). What are the four basic functions that make up the management
process? Retrieved September 22, 2023, from http://smallbusiness.chron.com/four-basic-functionsmake-up-management-process-23852.html

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

