Competency-Based
Competitive Events
*Written Exam*
2024 HS ICDC
Booklet Number _____

Business Management and
Administration Cluster Exam
BLTDM - Business Law and Ethics Team Decision Making Event
HRM – Human Resources Management Series Event

INSTRUCTIONS: This is a timed, comprehensive exam for the occupational area
identified above. Do not open this booklet until instructed to do so by the
testing monitor. You will have _____ minutes to complete all questions.

CAUTION: Posting these materials on a website is a copyright violation.
This comprehensive exam was developed by the MBA Research and Curriculum Center
exclusively for DECA’s 2023-2024 Competitive Events Program. Items in this exam were written
expressly for use at DECA’s ICDC. Performance indicators for this exam are at the prerequisite,
career-sustaining, and specialist levels.
Copyright © 2024 by Marketing & Business Administration Research and Curriculum
Center®, Columbus, Ohio (dba MBA Research). Each individual test item contained herein is the
exclusive property of MBA Research. Items are licensed to DECA only for use as configured within this
exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose other than as specifically authorized is
prohibited. Possession of this exam, without written authorization, under any other circumstances
is a copyright violation. Posting to inter- or intranet sites is specifically forbidden unless written
permission is obtained prior to posting. Report violations to DECA at 703.860.5000 and MBA Research at
800.448.0398.
DECA Inc. will impose sanctions on chapters and chartered associations for violations of this policy up to
and including disqualification of competitors and chapters from further participation.

2024 HS ICDC

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM

1. Johann works for an organization that is broken into traditional departments, each with its own set of
responsibilities and activities. What organizational structure does Johann’s company use?
A. Functional
B. Divisional
C. Specialty
D. Matrix
2. Jeffrey has worked as a logistics professional for several decades. After retiring, the company he left is
struggling to find a suitable replacement that possesses Jeffrey’s experience and expertise. The issue this
company is facing relates to
A. the loss of institutional knowledge.
B. global conflicts causing supply chain disruptions.
C. the challenges of reverse logistics.
D. increased use of automation.
3. A company creates a purchase agreement with its supplier that outlines the specific terms and conditions, as
well as the payment and delivery terms. However, this agreement does not specify the goods and services the
company is purchasing. This describes what type of purchase order?
A. Standard
B. Contract
C. Planned
D. Blanket
4. Which of the following is an impact that planning can have on a project:
A. It increases transparency.
B. It makes it easier to cut corners.
C. It increases disorganization.
D. It keeps stakeholders detached.
5. Which of the following statements about ethical behavior is true:
A. It prevents all temptations to act unethically.
B. It includes actions that are consistent only with society's values.
C. It takes education, training, and practice to be effective.
D. It leads people and organizations to negative consequences.
6. The DMAIC project methodology of Six Sigma involves five steps, including measure, analyze, improve, and
control. What does the “D” stand for?
A. Debut
B. Define
C. Delegate
D. Document
7. What should you do when writing a research report?
A. Avoid using visuals
B. Consider societal trends while writing
C. Have a clear research objective
D. Discuss every discovery from research

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

1

2024 HS ICDC

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM

8. A well-structured business
A. does not include lateral relations.
B. can retain high-quality employees.
C. does not need a division of labor.
D. likely uses a matrix structure.
9. How can an organization promote knowledge management?
A. By limiting meetings and casual conversations
B. By rewarding individual achievement
C. By providing a company intranet
D. By offering company benefits and perks
10. Online buying, also known as __________, has drastically changed the logistics strategies of supply chain
management.
A. integration
B. e-commerce
C. artificial intelligence
D. automation
11. Yorkshire Inc. buys several products in bulk from a manufacturer to then sell to retailers. In this example,
Yorkshire Inc. is a
A. wholesaler.
B. producer.
C. marketer.
D. manufacturer.
12. Which of the following supply chain models is popular in markets where there is intense competition:
A. Custom-configured
B. Efficient
C. Flexible
D. Continuous flow
13. Anika is using the Plan-Do-Check-Act (PDCA) cycle to solve a problem at her company. In what stage should
Anika identify the problem and determine success criteria?
A. Plan
B. Do
C. Act
D. Check
14. Which of the following is an external ethical issue that ethical risk management seeks to address:
A. Fairness among employees
B. Safety in the workplace
C. Misuse of resources
D. Regulation compliance

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2

2024 HS ICDC

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM

3

15. Which of the following tools would be most helpful when managing a project schedule:
A. Code of conduct
B. Statement of work
C. Budget
D. Gantt chart
16. Cameron feels strongly about the quality of both the products his company produces and the organization’s
internal processes, systems, culture, and overall mindset. He attempts to apply an ethical lens to everything the
company does. This best describes what ethical quality management characteristic?
A. A top-down approach
B. A comprehensive approach
C. Embraced by the entire organization
D. Compliant with laws and regulations
17. Which of the following is true regarding a product:
A. Individuals and businesses prefer tangible products.
B. The same product might have very different utility levels.
C. Individuals and businesses prefer intangible products.
D. The same product will always have the same utility level.
18. When handling client information, Madison makes sure to keep the information secure. Madison is practicing
proper __________ management.
A. mid-level
B. marketing
C. customer data
D. supply chain
19. When a company protects copyrighted material, patents, or proprietary information, it is protecting its
A. business inventory.
B. promotional content.
C. intellectual property.
D. artificial intelligence.
20. Which of the following is a benefit of automated accounting technology:
A. Improved customer engagement
B. More tedious data entry
C. Reduced manual input errors
D. Increased sales commissions
21. Which of the following is typically the first step of the litigation process:
A. One or more parties appeal
B. Initial motions are filed
C. Defendant files an answer
D. Plaintiff files a complaint

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM

4

22. Annalise uses a work breakdown structure to divide her project into
A. scrum items.
B. budget components.
C. stakeholders.
D. deliverables.
23. Mediation is different from arbitration in that in mediation, the parties
A. either win or lose.
B. partake in a formal process.
C. testify under oath.
D. control the outcome.
24. Sylvia is in charge of the spring musical and asks the drama teacher whether there are old costumes in storage
that could be borrowed for the play. Sylvia’s drama teacher is an example of a(n) __________ resource.
A. financial
B. external
C. intangible
D. internal
25. A manufacturer always keeps excess products on hand in case of emergencies. These products are an
example of
A. finished goods.
B. raw materials.
C. buffer inventory.
D. work-in-process inventory.
26. Which of the following is a way in which money flows into a business:
A. Owner's equity
B. Cost of goods
C. Taxes
D. Sale of assets
27. Bryson is responsible for helping his company properly hire and utilize its employees. Which type of business
management and administration career does Bryson have?
A. Operations management
B. Business analytics
C. Human resources management
D. Office management
28. According to Geert Hofstede’s dimensions of national cultures, a society in which people live freely and
prioritize having fun is one with high levels of
A. power distance.
B. restraint.
C. uncertainty avoidance.
D. indulgence.

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM

29. Companies should establish strong __________ to improve the security of their accounts, archives, and data.
A. management
B. investments
C. passwords
D. customer relations
30. Ophelia works for a large company with four divisions: Northeast, South, Midwest, and West. What
organizational structure is Ophelia’s company most likely to use?
A. Functional
B. Matrix
C. Specialty
D. Divisional
31. Which of the following statements best characterizes business process thinking:
A. It helps employees see the full picture of an organization.
B. It reduces the need for interdepartmental communication.
C. It relies on the use of automated technology.
D. It is used predominantly as a quality management framework.
32. Which of the following is most likely to automate risk management practices:
A. Risk management personnel
B. Trends
C. Laws and regulations
D. Technology
33. Copyright protection generally lasts __________ years after the death of the author.
A. 25
B. 200
C. 70
D. 10
34. Which of the following falls under the focus of working capital management:
A. Handling accounts payable
B. Paying shareholders
C. Financing investments
D. Demand forecasting
35. A country’s government changes its policies to enact a trade barrier, impacting companies who do business
there. This is an example of __________ risk.
A. currency
B. political
C. internal
D. technological

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

5

2024 HS ICDC

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM

6

36. Jamie arrives at the venue to give his presentation. However, right before he is set to present, he realizes the
projector won’t connect to his laptop—he no longer has his slides that accompany his speech. What
presentation step has Jamie forgotten?
A. Speak in a simple, clear manner
B. Familiarize yourself with the venue
C. Don’t ignore your audience
D. Show up on time to the venue
37. Successfully executing and controlling a project requires consistent
A. procrastination.
B. negotiation.
C. delegation.
D. communication.
38. Companies can protect their customers by restricting the dissemination of PII, also known as
A. personally identifiable information.
B. partial individual inputs.
C. patronage-implementation idea.
D. patented intelligence integration.
39. The change management process can involve different types and levels of change. Large, often dramatic
changes—such as deciding to expand the business internationally—are often called __________ changes.
A. adaptive
B. personnel
C. creative
D. transformational
40. Raphael needs insurance that will cover any additional expenses if he is temporarily displaced from his home
while it is being repaired or rebuilt. Raphael needs __________ coverage.
A. personal property
B. loss of use
C. dwelling
D. personal liability
41. Jared wants to commit to managing his time better. He started by setting his goals and identifying his objectives
before making monthly, weekly, and daily to-do lists. According to the time-management process, what is
Jared's next step?
A. Prioritize daily activities
B. Put his plan into action
C. Keep a time log
D. Schedule daily activities
42. Which of the following is the first stage of the knowledge management process:
A. Deliver
B. Prioritize
C. Audit
D. Optimize

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM

7

43. Which of the following statements about settling a case is true:
A. It requires only one party to agree to settle.
B. It ends a dispute before the end of a trial.
C. It requires lawyers and courtroom procedure.
D. It is typically more expensive than going to trial.
44. Most research reports include a brief overview that highlights all the important aspects of the research in a
concise manner. This best describes what element of a research report?
A. Findings
B. Conclusion
C. Abstract
D. Introduction
45. Which of the following is a way in which technology facilitates knowledge management:
A. It ensures knowledge is retained.
B. It complicates the storage of knowledge.
C. It makes knowledge easier to record.
D. It makes knowledge harder to access.
46. For information to qualify as a trade secret, the information
A. cannot be sold or licensed.
B. doesn't need to be protected by a confidentiality agreement.
C. must be commercially valuable.
D. can be known by a large group of people.
47. A business is implementing a new company-wide computer system, and Sandra has been tasked with training
the staff for the transition. According to the steps in the process of leading change, what should Sandra do first?
A. Communicate the change to everyone involved.
B. Show why the change is necessary.
C. Ask others to join in leading the change.
D. Immediately put the change into action.
48. The ultimate goal of supply chains is to
A. gather raw materials.
B. achieve customer satisfaction.
C. be flexible.
D. span as many countries as possible.
49. When team members work together to generate ideas to accomplish a shared goal that goes beyond the ability
of any one person to achieve, what occurs?
A. Concurrence
B. Cooperation
C. Collaboration
D. Clarification

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM

50. Which of the following is a way in which a company can improve its cybersecurity:
A. Avoid implementing multifactor authentication
B. Encourage the use of basic and simple passwords
C. Train employees to recognize threats
D. Allow employees access to all company information
51. Which of the following is a data change best practice:
A. Store data in multiple locations
B. Avoid regular audits of datasets
C. Properly train employees on the data change
D. Don't waste time making history logs of data
52. Logic removes __________ from the decision-making process.
A. personal involvement or emotion
B. input and advice from others
C. the possibility of making a mistake
D. the need for maximum input
53. Which of the following are examples of digital assets:
A. Social media accounts and photos
B. Websites and printers
C. Hardware and email lists
D. Desktop computers and videos
54. To maintain a professional social media presence, businesses must develop a
A. cyberlaw.
B. knowledge gap.
C. content strategy.
D. labor contract
55. The RTKT company's cash flow statement for the fiscal year has a cash flow from operations of $100 million
and capital expenditures of $75 million. What is the company's free cash flow?
A. $25 million
B. $100 million
C. $175 million
D. $125 million
56. Zae is happy with the laptop he purchased because it meets his needs. Zae is demonstrating customer
A. feedback.
B. appreciation.
C. satisfaction.
D. loyalty.

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

8

2024 HS ICDC

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM

9

57. On Charlie's last day with his company, his boss wants to meet with him to gain feedback and capture his
knowledge about the company's database. This is an example of what type of interview?
A. Expert
B. Personal
C. Phone
D. Exit
58. Kelsey is collaborating with her team to develop a new work-from-home policy in the hopes it will attract more
job applicants. To best implement this new policy, Kelsey should work through the steps of a __________
management plan.
A. change
B. crisis
C. customer relationship
D. channel
59. Identifying and resolving issues that arise during a project is most likely to occur during what stage of project
management?
A. Planning
B. Monitoring and controlling
C. Closing
D. Initiation
60. What responsibilities does managing a project team involve?
A. Identifying risks and mediating conflict
B. Mediating conflict and providing feedback
C. Providing feedback and documenting progress
D. Documenting progress and identifying risks
61. Which of the following events would be most likely to inspire business process changes:
A. Company downsizing
B. A routine safety inspection
C. Firing an employee
D. Meeting with a new client
62. An advantage that internal data have over external data is that internal data are always more __________ than
external data.
A. accessible
B. comprehensive
C. impartial
D. accurate
63. Unlike other managerial functions, staffing is a(n) __________ activity—it’s happening across the business, all
the time.
A. risky
B. emotional
C. technological
D. continuous

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM

10

64. When customers don’t buy a business's product, the business should
A. raise the product’s price.
B. replace the product.
C. sue the customers.
D. hire new employees.
65. Which of the following is an example of quantitative data:
A. Diaries and logs
B. Feedback forms
C. Focus groups
D. Sales numbers
66. Which of the following techniques is crucial to maintaining supplier relationships:
A. Avoid automated technologies.
B. Provide consistent communication.
C. Overpromise your suppliers
D. Be reactive, not proactive.
67. As a manager, April makes sure to recognize the efforts of each employee on her team so they keep up the
good work. This is an example of
A. planning.
B. instructing.
C. delegating.
D. motivating.
68. Machine learning and artificial intelligence (AI) have greatly contributed to the increased use of __________ in
supply chains.
A. automation
B. raw materials
C. manual labor
D. tariffs
69. Which of the following statements best represents tacit knowledge:
A. It can be readily captured in a document.
B. It can be stored in a database.
C. It can be easily communicated to others.
D. It can be gained through an experience.
70. Which of the following is most likely to help you implement effective risk management:
A. Membership in a professional organization
B. An advertising campaign
C. A long-term career plan
D. Up-to-date knowledge of laws and regulations

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM

71. Which of the following best describes a plaintiff in the litigation process:
A. The party that answers a complaint and defends themselves
B. The party that makes a formal legal complaint
C. The person who presides over the court proceeding
D. The body of people sworn to give a verdict based on evidence
72. Failure to follow the chain of command
A. allows you to do your work in peace.
B. creates unnecessary complications for everyone.
C. may lead to you receiving a promotion.
D. reflects positively on you as an employee.
73. Foreign exchange risk is also called __________ risk.
A. human
B. environmental
C. currency
D. social
74. Which of the following statements about ambiguity is true:
A. Ambiguity has nothing to do with risk.
B. It’s possible to avoid ambiguity in today's world.
C. Ambiguity refers to certainty and clarity.
D. Tolerating ambiguity means being OK with uncertainty.
75. Which of the following helps project teams document knowledge gained from experience:
A. A risk checklist
B. Lessons-learned document
C. Communities of practice
D. SWOT analysis
76. Which of the following is a planning activity:
A. Determining tasks
B. Interviewing applicants
C. Instructing employees
D. Establishing goals
77. A salesperson should always get to know their customers and make them feel valued. In other words, a
salesperson should __________ with customers.
A. buy products
B. see eye-to-eye
C. go to special events
D. build rapport

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

11

2024 HS ICDC

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM

12

78. Which of the following steps in the change management process should happen first:
A. Prepare the organization for change
B. Review progress and analyze results
C. Develop a plan for change
D. Implement the changes
79. Cool Clay Creations is trying to determine whether the company owns its knowledge and practices. This
company is dealing with issues related to
A. organizational culture.
B. intentionality.
C. intellectual property.
D. trust.
80. As a manager, Alicia sets rules for how employees are supposed to clock in and out of a shift. She’s hoping this
__________ control will help prevent any issues with time-tracking from occurring.
A. feedforward
B. concurrent
C. vertical
D. feedback
81. If a business is looking to analyze both internal and external factors at play in its organization, it would conduct
a __________ analysis.
A. MoSCoW
B. MOST
C. PESTLE
D. SWOT
82. Before planning and engaging in vendor negotiations, procurement specialists should
A. finalize the vendor contract.
B. draft a confidentiality agreement.
C. pursue opportunities elsewhere.
D. identify negotiation objectives.
83. Which of the following is a goal of federal fair-trade laws:
A. Determining if a product poses a danger to the public
B. Ensuring businesses have implied product warranties
C. Banning products deemed dangerous to the public
D. Promoting competition in the marketplace
84. Cameron is starting a new business and needs to determine the company’s workflows and procedures. Which
of the following would be most helpful for Cameron:
A. SWOT analysis
B. A 457 plan
C. Automation
D. Business process design

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM

13

85. Which of the following statements about project management software is true:
A. It is used to track assignments.
B. It does not track hours worked.
C. It is challenging for remote employees to use.
D. It improves communication but slows production.
86. When a manufacturer acquires firms at the distribution end of its supply chain, it is performing __________
integration.
A. backward
B. positive
C. forward
D. negative
87. Which of the following quality management frameworks emphasizes customer satisfaction and is based on the
idea that all employees are responsible for ensuring quality:
A. Lean Management
B. Six Sigma
C. Herzberg’s Two-Factor Theory
D. Total Quality Management
88. Tyreek's recent data change request was approved by his company's administration. As a result, what should
Tyreek be sure to do?
A. Update data in all locations for consistency
B. Keep the information to himself
C. Print a copy of the new data
D. Delete all files with old data
89. A company is reviewing the knowledge it already possesses to identify where gaps exist. This describes which
stage of the knowledge management process?
A. Deliver
B. Audit
C. Capture
D. Optimize
90. Delia is a third-party logistics professional who has been contracted to revamp the product return system for a
local distributor. To achieve this, Delia should develop a(n) __________ plan for the distributor.
A. reverse logistics
B. data mining
C. order fulfilment
D. market segmentation
91. Business processes help organizations by introducing
A. advertising.
B. people knowledge.
C. sales quotas.
D. standardization.

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM

14

92. What is the final step of writing a recommendation report?
A. Summarizing findings
B. Selecting a format
C. Describing the situation
D. Conducting research
93. Jaylynn decides to organize her information from oldest to newest. The method of organization Jalynn has
chosen is
A. chronological order.
B. comparison and contrast.
C. deductive organization.
D. order of importance.
94. Which of the following tools might be used by a business to store information about people, products, or
transactions:
A. Stock screener
B. Database
C. Consensus scale
D. Social media
95. Being open to new ideas means being
A. adaptable.
B. wrong.
C. stubborn.
D. comfortable.
96. In the business world, quality often refers to excellence, value, and
A. conformance.
B. quantity.
C. technology.
D. empathy.
97. Which of the following is an example of a limited decision:
A. Purchasing a car
B. Taking a shower
C. Buying a backpack
D. Ordering lunch
98. Artem wants to know when his new project has been successful, so he establishes a goal that is easy to track.
Which of the following best describes Artem’s goal:
A. Measurable
B. Professional
C. Relevant
D. Sympathetic

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM

99. Rachel is working with her team to develop the company’s annual report. The report itself was designed on
time, but delays in the approval process caused the project to fall behind schedule. To make sure the annual
report is ready for the company’s annual conference next week, Rachel pays a rush fee to the printer—
essentially, increasing her project budget to meet a deadline. What is this an example of?
A. Demonstrating honesty
B. Prioritizing cost-effectiveness
C. Crashing a project
D. Delegating responsibilities
100. Knowledge cannot be acquired without
A. empathy.
B. experience.
C. learning.
D. compensation.

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

15

2024 HS ICDC

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

1

1. A
Functional. Functional structure is an organizational design in which the business is broken into traditional
departments, each with its own set of responsibilities and activities (marketing, operations, sales, IT, etc.).
Because Johann’s company is broken into traditional departments, it uses a functional structure. A divisional
structure is an organizational design in which the business is broken down into units according to factors such
as product, process, territory, customer type, etc. A matrix structure is an organizational design that combines
the traditional functional structure with the divisional structure. Specialty structure is a fictitious term.
SOURCE: SM:064 Explain managerial considerations in organizing
SOURCE: LAP-SM-064—Put It All Together (Managerial Organizing)
2. A
The loss of institutional knowledge. Institutional knowledge is the sum of information possessed by a company
and its employees. Because Jeffrey has amassed a wealth of relevant information, experiences, and best
practices over his many years with his company, the company is struggling to find a replacement that
possesses his level of institutional knowledge. Automation is a method of operating or controlling a process in
which tasks are completed by automatic means, such as technology, reducing human effort and labor. Reverse
logistics refers to the movement of products back through the supply chain, from customers back to distributors,
manufacturers, or suppliers. There is no indication that Jeffrey leaving the company is related to automation or
reverse logistics. While global conflicts cause supply chain disruptions, Jeffrey’s retirement is not related to
global supply chain disruptions.
SOURCE: OP:480 Discuss global supply chain issues
SOURCE: Morgan, J.P. (2022, May 25). What’s behind the global supply chain crisis? Retrieved October 27,
2023, from https://www.jpmorgan.com/insights/global-research/supply-chain/global-supply-chainissues
3. B
Contract. A purchase order is a form that a business fills out to order goods. The four main types of purchase
orders are standard purchase orders, planned purchase orders, blanket purchase orders, and contract
purchase orders. A contract purchase order sets out the supplier's details and potentially the payment and
delivery terms, but it does not specify the products or services purchased. Standard purchase orders are
typically used for one-time purchases of various items, and they contain a complete specification of the
purchase, price, quantity, delivery schedule, and accounting distributions. Planned purchase orders are longterm agreements committing to buying items or services from a specific source. Like a standard purchase order,
a planned purchase order requires full details of the goods and services, their costs, their delivery dates, etc. A
blanket purchase order involves a purchaser agreeing to buy particular goods and services, but not at any
specific quantity.
SOURCE: OP:250 Describe types of purchase orders
SOURCE: Melanie. (2019, December 16). Types of purchase order - The 4 kinds you need to know. Retrieved
October 31, 2023, from https://www.unleashedsoftware.com/blog/managing-procurement-purchaseorders
4. A
It increases transparency. Planning is important to the success of projects for many reasons, including that it
increases transparency. A project plan allows everyone to be aware of the scope and deliverables of the
project, and it helps everyone share knowledge and be open whenever roadblocks occur. Planning helps a
project because it helps keep you organized, not disorganized. Planning improves communication and keeps
stakeholders engaged, not detached. Rather than making it easier to cut corners, planning helps avoid the
negative effects of cutting corners.
SOURCE: OP:519 Plan project
SOURCE: LAP-OP-519—Plan On It! (Planning Projects)

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

2

5. C
It takes education, training, and practice to be effective. Ethical behavior includes actions that are consistent
with values, both your own and those of society. Ethical behavior doesn’t just happen; it takes education,
training, and practice to be effective. Ethical behavior is crucial because it helps people and organizations to
avoid—not lead to—negative consequences. Ethical behavior does not prevent all temptations to act
unethically. Even those who understand and believe in ethics are sometimes tempted to act unethically. It is
sometimes difficult to avoid unethical actions, but it is important to try to do the right thing whenever possible.
SOURCE: EI:132 Model ethical behavior
SOURCE: LAP-EI-132—Practice What You Preach (Modeling Ethical Behavior)
6. B
Define. Six Sigma is a popular quality-management methodology that relies on a five-step approach to improve
any business process. This five-step approach asks practitioners to define the problem, measure initial
performance, analyze the issue, improve performance, and control the process so it remains effective.
Debuting, delegating, and documenting are not identified steps in the DMAIC project methodology of Six Sigma.
SOURCE: QM:002 Describe the nature of quality management frameworks (e.g., Six Sigma, ITIL, CMMI)
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2023, April 25). What is Six Sigma? Concept, steps, examples, and certification.
Retrieved October 10, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/s/six-sigma.asp
7. C
Have a clear research objective. A research report is a publication that recounts details about a conducted
research project. When writing a research report, it is important to have a clear research objective, as doing so
will keep the report focused on the topic at hand. Rather than discussing every discovery from your research,
you should discuss only the discoveries that are significant. It is important to use visuals (such as graphs and
charts). It is usually not necessary to consider societal trends while writing, unless they are relevant to the
research objective.
SOURCE: CO:186 Write research reports
SOURCE: Bhat, A. (2023). Research reports: Definition and how to write them. Retrieved October 10, 2023,
from https://www.questionpro.com/blog/research-reports
8. B
Can retain high-quality employees. A business that has an innovative and efficient organization leads to high
productivity, profitability, and the ability to attract and retain high-quality employees. Businesses that are wellstructured still need a division of labor to operate efficiently. A well-structured business does not necessarily use
one organizational structure specifically; a business can function well in a variety of structures. Lateral relations
are important for all businesses because no matter what structure an organization’s leaders choose to
implement, they should strive to include as much teamwork and cooperation among employees as possible.
SOURCE: EC:103 Explain the organizational design of businesses
SOURCE: LAP-EC-103—Designed to Work (Organizational Design of Business)
9. C
By providing a company intranet. An organization can promote knowledge management by providing helpful
tools such as a company intranet or other knowledge management technology. Organizations should also
encourage regular meetings and conversations during which employees share their insights. Companies should
reward collaboration and communication, rather than individual achievement. Offering company benefits and
perks is not directly related to knowledge management.
SOURCE: KM:002 Discuss the role of ethics in knowledge management
SOURCE: LAP-KM-002—Know What’s Right (Ethics in Knowledge Management)

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

3

10. B
E-commerce. Since the emergence of the digital marketplace, logistics has become vital to the survival of
supply chains. Increased online demand has created a final-mile arms race, where supply chains fiercely
compete to provide the best e-commerce delivery service available. Artificial intelligence (AI) is technology that
mimics or surpasses human intelligence. Automation is the use of technology to control a process, reducing
human effort and labor. Integration is the process of coordinating the physical flow of materials to ensure
maximum productivity throughout the entire supply chain.
SOURCE: OP:480 Discuss global supply chain issues
SOURCE: Davis, J. (2021, July 11). Prepare your company for the global supply chain challenges. Retrieved
November 3, 2023, from https://managerplus.iofficecorp.com/blog/global-supply-chain-challenges
11. A
Wholesaler. Wholesalers are intermediaries who buy goods from producers, or manufacturers, and sell them to
retailers. Yorkshire is not a producer because they do not make goods. They are also not a manufacturer,
because manufacturers take goods or materials from suppliers and create a finished product. Marketers are
people or groups who create value for a company by promoting products or communicating with customers.
SOURCE: OP:477 Explain the impact of supply chains on business performance
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2023, March 28). The supply chain: From raw materials to order fulfillment. Retrieved
October 27, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/s/supplychain.asp
12. B
Efficient. The efficient supply chain model is preferred in markets with intense competition because this model
emphasizes supply chain efficiency and delivery excellence over creating a product that stands out from
competing firms. The flexible supply chain model is used by organizations in industries that typically experience
periods of extremely high demand followed by periods of low demand. The continuous flow supply chain model
emphasizes stability and consistency, and it is typically employed in industries where supply and demand are
predictable and secure. The custom-configured supply chain model is designed to suit products that have many
customization options.
SOURCE: OP:479 Describe supply chain networks
SOURCE: Rielly, D. (2023, May 23). Six supply chain models you need to know. Retrieved November 3, 2023,
from https://www.magaya.com/the-6-degrees-of-supply-chain-connections/
13. A
Plan. The Plan-Do-Check-Act (PDCA) cycle is a tool used for continuous improvement, often as part of different
quality management frameworks (e.g., Six Sigma, Lean, TQM). There are four steps: Plan (identify problems),
Do (test possible solutions), Check (study results), and Act (implement the best solution). During the Plan stage,
organizations should explore all available information and state success criteria, which will be used in
subsequent steps.
SOURCE: QM:003 Discuss the need for continuous improvement of the quality process
SOURCE: Mind Tools. (2023). PDCA (plan do check act). Retrieved October 10, 2023, from
https://www.mindtools.com/as2l5i1/pdca-plan-do-check-act

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

4

14. D
Regulation compliance. No matter how ethical a company is within its own walls, it’s still likely to encounter
ethical dilemmas in the external environment. All organizations are subject to regulations and laws. Complying
with them is one of the most important functions of risk management. When making compliance decisions, risk
managers need to consider not just the legality but also the ethics of the issue. Safety in the workplace, misuse
of resources, and fairness among employees are examples of internal ethical issues that ethical risk
management seeks to address.
SOURCE: RM:041 Explain the role of ethics in risk management
SOURCE: LAP-RM-041—Manage Risk the Right Way (Ethics in Risk Management)
15. D
Gantt chart. A Gantt chart is a visual representation of the elements in a project schedule and how they relate to
and rely on each other. When managing a project schedule, a Gantt chart will be most helpful. A code of
conduct, budget, and statement of work are important documents, but they are less helpful when managing a
project schedule.
SOURCE: PJ:010 Manage project schedule
SOURCE: Grant, M. (2022, December 1). Gantt charting: Definition, benefits, and how they’re used. Retrieved
October 18, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/g/gantt-chart.asp
16. B
A comprehensive approach. Businesses that effectively implement ethical quality management tend to have
similar characteristics. One characteristic of ethical quality management is a comprehensive approach.
Remember, quality doesn’t just refer to the caliber of a finished product. Quality is an all-encompassing term
beyond products and services; it describes an organization’s internal processes, systems, culture, and overall
mindset. Businesses implementing ethical quality management apply an ethical lens to everything they do.
While a top-down approach, being embraced by the entire organization, and being compliant with laws and
regulations are characteristics of ethical quality management, they aren’t necessarily shown in this example.
SOURCE: QM:012 Discuss ethical considerations in quality management
SOURCE: LAP-QM-012—Quality Is the Best Policy (Ethics in Quality Management)
17. B
The same product might have very different utility levels. A product’s utility is completely relative. This means
that utility isn’t the same across the board. The same product might have wildly different utility levels, depending
on who’s using it and how they are using it. Individuals and businesses do not always prefer tangible or
intangible products—their product preference will depend on their unique wants and needs.
SOURCE: EC:004 Determine economic utilities created by business activities
SOURCE: LAP-EC-904—Use It (Economic Utility)

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

5

18. C
Customer data. Customer data management (CDM) is the practice of collecting, securing, and managing a
database of customer information for the purpose of protecting customer data and improving a company’s
overall processes. By securing her client information, Madison is practicing proper customer data management.
Supply chain management is the process of overseeing the flow of products, information, and finances, from
raw materials to finished products. Marketing management is a focus on all marketing functions, including
channel management, marketing-information management, pricing, product/service management, promotion,
and selling. Mid-level management is performed by managers who report to top-level management and who
have supervisors who report to them.
SOURCE: NF:002 Maintain customer records
SOURCE: Funk, L. (2022, August 23). Customer data management: 8 ways to manage and protect your
customer data. Retrieved September 29, 2023, from https://www.zendesk.com/blog/8-wayseffectively-manage-customer-data/
19. C
Intellectual property. Intellectual property are the intangible business assets resulting from creative or thinking
processes. This includes copyrighted material, patents, and proprietary information. Artificial intelligence (AI) is
technology that mimics or surpasses human intelligence. Business inventory is a company’s stock on hand. Not
all inventory is copyrighted or patented material. Promotional content are marketing deliverables.
SOURCE: OP:517 Comply with strategies for protecting business' digital assets (e.g., website, social media,
email, etc.)
SOURCE: Murray, J. (2020, July 21). How to protect your company’s digital assets. Retrieved November 3,
2023, from https://www.thebalancemoney.com/how-to-protect-company-digital-assets-4153375
20. C
Reduced manual input errors. With modern accounting technology, accountants no longer have to manually
enter, detect, and cross-reference information. Automated programs perform those tasks instantaneously and
accurately, reducing the risk of human errors. Accounting technology has no bearing on customer engagement,
which is a marketing goal. Data entry is less tedious—not more—with recent advances in accounting
technology due to sophisticated programs that can process data automatically. Automated accounting
technology does not necessarily mean that sales commissions increase. Commissions are determined based
on company sales policies and the products offered.
SOURCE: FI:352 Explain the use of technology in accounting
SOURCE: Thomson Reuters. (2022, November 8). Accounting technology: What it is and how it works.
Retrieved October 6, 2023, from https://tax.thomsonreuters.com/blog/accounting-technology-what-itis-and-how-it-works
21. D
Plaintiff files a complaint. Litigation is the formal process during which legal disputes are involved. The first step
of the process is when the plaintiff initiates a case and files a formal legal complaint. Then, the defendant is
served with court paperwork or waives service of process, if applicable. Next, the defendant may file an answer
to the complaint the plaintiff has made. Initial motions from both parties are then filed. Appeals can only be
made after a decision has been reached at the conclusion of a trial.
SOURCE: BL:160 Describe the litigation process
SOURCE: Bieber, C. (2023, April 24). What is litigation? Understanding the litigation process. Retrieved
October 4, 2023, from https://www.forbes.com/advisor/legal/litigation

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

6

22. D
Deliverables. The work breakdown structure (WBS) is a document that details the division of a project workload
into smaller, more manageable parts that are deliverable-oriented. Therefore, when Annalise uses a WBS,
she’s dividing her project into deliverables. Work breakdown structures do not divide projects into stakeholders,
budget components, or scrum items (a fictitious term).
SOURCE: PJ:006 Prepare work breakdown structure (WBS)
SOURCE: Mathis, M. (n.d.). Work breakdown structure (WBS) purpose, process and pitfalls. Retrieved October
26, 2023, from https://www.projectsmart.co.uk/work-breakdown-structure/work-breakdown-structurepurpose-process-pitfalls.php
23. D
Control the outcome. Mediation is the process in which a neutral third party works to help opposing parties
resolve a conflict, whereas arbitration calls on an uninvolved third party (called an arbitrator) to analyze the case
and reach a verdict. In mediation, the mediator has no power to decide the outcome and helps the parties
negotiate an outcome that is mutually satisfactory. Parties in mediation do not testify under oath. In arbitration,
the parties present their cases to an arbitrator and testify under oath. The arbitrator listens to the evidence and
has the power to decide the outcome. Arbitration has a clear winner or loser. Arbitration is a formal process,
whereas mediation is an informal process.
SOURCE: BL:161 Discuss the arbitration/mediation process
SOURCE: FINRA. (2023). Comparison between arbitration & mediation. Retrieved October 4, 2023, from
https://www.finra.org/arbitration-mediation/comparison-between-arbitration-mediation
24. D
Internal. Sources are either internal or external. Internal sources are those within your project team, workplace,
school, club, or group. External sources are outside of the organization. Because Sylvia consulted someone
within her school, the drama teacher is an example of an internal, not external, resource. If something is
intangible, it is not able to be touched or held. Sylvia’s drama teacher is not a financial resource because they
are not related to money/funding.
SOURCE: OP:003 Identify resources needed for project
SOURCE: LAP-OP-003—Get What You Need (Identifying Project Resources)
25. C
Buffer inventory. Buffer inventory refers to excess inventory kept on hand in case of emergencies. These
inventory protect against supply problems, such as poor quality or slow delivery of raw materials. Raw materials
are items in their natural state or condition that are used in the manufacturing process. Work-in-process
inventory items are materials and parts waiting to be made into something else. Finished goods are any
products ready to be shipped out or sold directly to customers.
SOURCE: OP:336 Discuss types of inventory
SOURCE: Magloff, L. (n.d.). Types of inventory for an organization. Retrieved October 31, 2023, from
https://smallbusiness.chron.com/types-inventory-organization-14109.html
26. D
Sale of assets. Ways in which money can flow into a business include start-up money, the sale of products,
loans, interest, and the sale of assets. Assets are anything of value that a business owns. In some cases,
businesses have assets that they no longer need, and selling these assets brings in cash. Cost of goods,
owner's equity, and taxes are all ways in which money flows out of a business.
SOURCE: FI:091 Describe the nature of cash flow statements
SOURCE: LAP-FI-091—Count the Cash (Cash Flow Statements)

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

7

27. C
Human resources management. Human resources management is the process of planning, staffing, leading,
and organizing the employees of the business. Helping the company achieve its goals through the proper hiring
and use of employees is one common human resources management job duty. This is not a job duty for
employees in supply chain management, operations management, or business analytics.
SOURCE: PD:297 Discuss employment opportunities in business management and administration
SOURCE: LAP-PD-297—Career Opportunities in Business Management and Administration
28. D
Indulgence. According to Geert Hofstede’s dimensions of national cultures, societies with high levels of
indulgence believe that people should freely enjoy life and have fun. Those with high levels of restraint believe
that enjoyment should be regulated and restricted. Power distance is a dimension of national culture that refers
to how accepting less-powerful members of a society are of the inequality within the society. Uncertainty
avoidance refers to a society’s tolerance of uncertainty or insecurity. Members of uncertainty-avoiding cultures
prefer structure, rules, and safety.
SOURCE: EC:045 Discuss the impact of cultural and social environments on global trade
SOURCE: LAP-EC-045—On Top of the World (Impact of Culture on Global Trade)
29. C
Passwords. Businesses should create strong, varied passwords to guard access into their accounts, archives,
and data. While most companies do need strong investments, management, and customer relations, none of
these business elements will help them protect sensitive accounts and information.
SOURCE: OP:064 Maintain data security
SOURCE: Federal Trade Commission. (n.d.). Start with security: A guide for business. Retrieved January 24,
2024, from https://www.ftc.gov/business-guidance/resources/start-security-guide-business
30. D
Divisional. A divisional structure is an organizational design in which the business is broken down into units
according to factors such as product, process, territory, customer type, etc. Because Ophelia’s company is
divided according to territory, it most likely uses a divisional structure. Functional structure is an organizational
design in which the business is broken into traditional departments, each with its own set of responsibilities and
activities (marketing, operations, sales, IT, etc.). A matrix structure is an organizational design that combines
the traditional functional structure with the divisional structure. Specialty structure is a fictitious term.
SOURCE: SM:064 Explain managerial considerations in organizing
SOURCE: LAP-SM-064—Put It All Together (Managerial Organizing)
31. A
It helps employees see the full picture of an organization. Business process thinking involves thinking of an
organization not as a group of departments performing their own tasks, but as a set of processes working
together to accomplish a shared goal. Business process thinking helps employees see the full picture of an
organization, because it encourages them to consider their work within the context of a greater organizational
effort. Business process thinking relies on interdepartmental communication—not necessarily automated
technology. It is not used predominantly as a quality management framework.
SOURCE: OP:475 Describe the factors that influence business process design
SOURCE: Tallyfy. (n.d.). Importance of process thinking in business management. Retrieved October 26, 2023,
from https://tallyfy.com/process-thinking/

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

8

32. D
Technology. Automation is a method of operating or controlling a process in which tasks are completed by
automatic means, such as technology, thereby reducing human effort and labor. Technology allows companies
to automate risk management practices. While laws and regulations, risk management personnel, and trends
may impact risk management practices, they are not likely to automate these practices.
SOURCE: RM:042 Describe the use of technology in risk management
SOURCE: Vashistha, A. (2021, February 25). The future of risk management is automated. Retrieved October
10, 2023, from https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbestechcouncil/2021/02/25/the-future-of-riskmanagement-is-automated/?sh=90598f04ed02
33. C
70. Copyright protection gives the copyright holder the exclusive right to copy, distribute, perform, or display the
copyrighted work. That protection is maintained for the life of the author plus an additional 70 years after the
death of the author. The protection does not last 10, 200, or 25 years.
SOURCE: BL:051 Describe methods used to protect intellectual property
SOURCE: Entrepreneur. (n.d.). Intellectual property. Retrieved October 13, 2023, from
https://www.entrepreneur.com/encyclopedia/intellectual-property
34. A
Handling accounts payable. Working capital management focuses on the company’s current balance of assets
and liabilities. This includes accounts payable, which is all the money owed by a business to others. Financing
investments, paying shareholders, and demand forecasting fall under capital investment decisions because
they are concerned with long-term projects. Demand forecasting is a supply chain management process of
predicting and planning for demand; it is not directly tied to working capital management.
SOURCE: FI:354 Explain the role of finance in business
SOURCE: LAP-FI-354—Money Matters (Role of Finance)
35. B
Political. Risk is the possibility of loss (failure) or gain (success). There are different types of risk, including
political, currency (foreign exchange), internal, external, technological, human, etc. Political risk, a major
international risk for businesses, occurs when a country’s government changes its policies, such as by enacting
trade barriers or requesting additional funds to export items in the country. This is not an example of currency,
internal, or technological risk.
SOURCE: RM:092 Describe international considerations affecting risk management
SOURCE: Beers, B. (2023, July 17). Top risks for international businesses. Retrieved October 4, 2023, from
https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/06/internationalfinancerisks.asp
36. B
Familiarize yourself with the venue. Presenters should always familiarize themselves with the venue where they
are speaking, including the equipment they intend to use. Jamie did not check the projector ahead of time,
making his presentation a more difficult endeavor. Jamie has not yet begun presenting, so he has not ignored
his audience or spoken in an unclear manner. Jamie did show up on time to the venue, but he forgot to check
the equipment.
SOURCE: CO:055 Extract relevant information from written materials
SOURCE: MindTools. (2023). 10 common presentation mistakes. Retrieved October 16, 2023, from
https://www.mindtools.com/avmnivr/10-common-presentation-mistakes

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

9

37. D
Communication. Communication throughout the life of a project is crucial to that project’s success. Specifically,
consistent communication is necessary for successfully executing and controlling a project. Procrastination
involves putting off until tomorrow what could be done today and is not helpful when working on a project.
Delegation and negotiation are sometimes necessary, but they are not required for successfully executing and
controlling a project.
SOURCE: PJ:009 Execute and control projects
SOURCE: Indeed. (2022, December 5). The importance of communication. Retrieved October 18, 2023, from
https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/importance-of-communication-in-projectmanagement
38. A
Personally identifiable information. Personally identifiable information (PII) is any data that could potentially
identify a specific individual. Any information that can be used to distinguish one person from another is a
potential security risk to customers. Therefore, it is important for companies to protect this information. Patented
intelligence integration, partial individual inputs, and patronage-implementation idea are not acknowledged
acronyms regarding customer protection.
SOURCE: OP:518 Comply with strategies to protect digital customer data (e.g., information about customers,
customers' credit-card numbers, passwords, customer transactions)
SOURCE: Rossi, B. (2019, December 3). 10 ways businesses can protect customer data. Retrieved November
3, 2023, from https://www.information-age.com/10-ways-businesses-can-protect-customer-data-128/
39. D
Transformational. Change management is the process of guiding an organization through a change, including
those made to company cultures, procedures, technology, infrastructure, etc. Large, often dramatic changes—
such as deciding to expand the business internationally or launching a new product—are often called
transformational changes. Adaptive changes are typically smaller incremental changes that evolve over time.
“Personnel” refers to employees, which are not necessarily related to large and dramatic changes. “Creative
changes” isn’t a term recognized in change management.
SOURCE: SM:096 Explain the change-management lifecycle
SOURCE: Miller, K. (2020, March 19). 5 critical steps in the change management process. Retrieved
September 29, 2023, from https://online.hbs.edu/blog/post/change-management-process
40. B
Loss of use. Loss of use coverage helps homeowners pay for additional expenses they have incurred while
their house is being repaired or restored. If Raphael’s home is damaged or destroyed, loss of use coverage will
help pay the temporary costs of living while awaiting repairs. Personal property coverage pays for an
individual’s personal items, such as furniture, clothing, or electronics. Personal liability coverage helps protect a
homeowner if a legal suit is brought against them for bodily injury or property damage. Dwelling coverage is a
type of home insurance that covers the actual costs to repair or rebuild a homeowner’s house if it is damaged or
destroyed.
SOURCE: FI:571 Determine insurance needs
SOURCE: Travelers. (2022). Home insurance coverage. Retrieved October 6, 2023, from
https://www.travelers.com/home-insurance/coverage

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

10

41. A
Prioritize daily activities. The eight steps in the time-management process are set goals; identify objectives;
create monthly, weekly, and daily to-do lists; prioritize daily activities; schedule daily activities; and follow your
plan. Since Jared has already completed the first five steps of the process, his next step will be to prioritize his
daily activities. Once he prioritizes them, he can schedule his daily activities before following his plan and
putting it into action. Although keeping a time log may help Jared to better manage his time, it is not a step in
the time-management process.
SOURCE: PD:019 Use time-management skills
SOURCE: LAP-PD-019—About Time (Time Management)
42. B
Prioritize. Knowledge management is the process of creating, identifying, collecting, organizing, sharing, and
using knowledge and knowledge sources for the benefit of the organization or business. The knowledge
management process can be split into six stages: Prioritize, audit, capture, curate, deliver, optimize. The first
stage of the knowledge management process is to prioritize the knowledge. This is done by determining what
customers are actually asking about and prioritizing that information using the 80-20 rule—80% of queries will
be solved using 20% of your knowledge.
SOURCE: KM:018 Apply knowledge management processes
SOURCE: eGain. (2023). What is a knowledge management process? Retrieved October 27, 2023, from
https://www.egain.com/what-is-knowledge-management-process
43. B
It ends a dispute before the end of a trial. Settling a case means ending a dispute before the end of a trial. Trials
are expensive, but cases that reach settlement can avoid the expense of a trial while still offering some
compensation for the wrong that was committed. Settlements do not take place after a trial. Even though they
can sometimes speed up the process, lawyers and courtroom procedure are not necessary to reach a
settlement. Both parties must agree to the settlement.
SOURCE: BL:159 Describe factors affecting the settlement of legal matters
SOURCE: Findlaw. (2016, June 20). What does it mean to settle a case? Retrieved October 4, 2023, from
https://www.findlaw.com/litigation/legal-system/what-does-it-mean-to-settle-a-case.html
44. C
Abstract. An abstract in a research report is a brief overview that highlights all the important aspects of the
research in a concise manner. Abstracts are always brief, go straight to the point, and come before the
introduction. The introduction of a research report highlights the objectives of the research, the problem the
research sets to solve, and the specifics of the research problem. The findings section details the results of the
research. The conclusion comes at the end of the report and is a summary of all of the information in the report
and outlines the significance of the entire study.
SOURCE: CO:186 Write research reports
SOURCE: Longe, B. (2023, July 27). Research report: Definition, types + [writing guide]. Retrieved October 10,
2023, from https://www.formpl.us/blog/research-report

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

11

45. C
It makes knowledge easier to record. Knowledge management is the process of creating, identifying, collecting,
organizing, sharing, and using knowledge and knowledge sources for the benefit of the organization or
business. Technology facilitates knowledge management in organizations because it makes knowledge easier
to record, access, and store. While knowledge management can go a long way toward helping professionals
retain knowledge, it does not necessarily ensure knowledge will be retained.
SOURCE: KM:003 Explain the use of technology in knowledge management
SOURCE: IBM. (n.d.). What is knowledge management? Retrieved October 27, 2023, from
https://www.ibm.com/topics/knowledge-management
46. C
Must be commercially valuable. Trade secrets are intellectual property rights or confidential information that can
be sold or licensed. For information to qualify as a trade secret, the information must be commercially valuable
and be known by only a limited group of persons, rather than a large group of people. In addition, the
information must be subject to reasonable steps taken by the rightful holder of the information to keep it secret,
including the use of confidentiality agreements.
SOURCE: KM:004 Explain legal considerations for knowledge management
SOURCE: WIPO. (n.d.). Frequently asked questions: Trade secrets. Retrieved October 27, 2023, from
https://www.wipo.int/tradesecrets/en/tradesecrets_faqs.html
47. B
Show why the change is necessary. According to the steps in the process of leading change, Sandra should
first show why the change is necessary. If Sandra wants her staff to take the change seriously, she must show
them why the change is good for both them and the company. The second step of the process is to ask others
to join in leading the change, followed by communicating the change to everyone involved. After addressing the
resistance to change, the final step of the process is to put the change into action.
SOURCE: EI:005 Lead change
SOURCE: LAP-EI-005—Start the Revolution (Leading Change)
48. B
Achieve customer satisfaction. The ultimate goal of supply chains is customer satisfaction—a measure of how
well a business has met its customers’ expectations. From a supply chain perspective, achieving customer
satisfaction means creating and maintaining a system that produces high-quality products and distributes those
products effectively. While many supply chains span several countries, others are confined to local
communities. Raw materials are important in supply chains but are not the ultimate goal. While supply chains
should aim to be flexible, it is not their most important goal.
SOURCE: OP:479 Describe supply chain networks
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2023, March 28). The supply chain: From raw materials to order fulfillment. Retrieved
October 27, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/s/supplychain.asp
49. C
Collaboration. Collaboration is a cooperative arrangement in which two or more parties contribute and share
responsibilities to achieve success. While collaboration requires cooperation, it is about much more than getting
along with others or helping them with a task or a project. Collaboration occurs when all team members work
together to generate ideas to accomplish a shared goal that goes beyond the ability of any one person to
achieve. Concurrence refers to multiple activities taking place at the same time. Clarification is the process of
making something clear and understandable.
SOURCE: EI:130 Collaborate with others
SOURCE: LAP-EI-130—Genius Is a Team Sport (Collaborating With Others)

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

12

50. C
Train employees to recognize threats. One of the best ways a company can improve its cybersecurity is by
training its employees to recognize threats. Doing so helps staff members identify cybersecurity threats and to
properly report them. Encouraging the use of basic and simple passwords, avoiding implementing multifactor
authentication, and allowing employees access to all company information are not ways in which a company
can improve its cybersecurity. Rather, companies should encourage the use of complex passwords, implement
multifactor authentication, and limit employee access to only what is necessary.
SOURCE: OP:518 Comply with strategies to protect digital customer data (e.g., information about customers,
customers' credit-card numbers, passwords, customer transactions)
SOURCE: Conlin, B. (2023, October 20). How to improve your small business's cybersecurity in an hour.
Retrieved October 31, 2023, from https://www.businessnewsdaily.com/15046-quick-cybersecuritytips.html
51. C
Properly train employees on the data change. When there is a change in data in an organization, it is important
for the organization to properly train employees on the data change. Not doing so can lead to confusion and
mistakes. Other common data change best practices include conducting regular audits of datasets, maintaining
history logs of data, and storing data in a central location (rather than multiple locations) to ensure everyone is
accessing the same information.
SOURCE: NF:264 Adhere to data change best practices
SOURCE: Spector, E. (2023, April 12). 6 best practices to improve change management at scale. Retrieved
October 11, 2023, from https://www.heap.io/blog/6-best-practices-to-improve-change-managementat-scale
52. A
Personal involvement or emotion. Logic helps you make sense of the facts. It involves comparing and
contrasting information apart from personal involvement or emotion. It entails looking at the alternatives from a
neutral point of view instead of from your perspective. Using logic does not necessarily remove the need for
input from others, the possibility of making a mistake, or the need for maximum input.
SOURCE: PD:017 Make decisions
SOURCE: LAP-PD-017— Weigh Your Options (Decision-Making)
53. A
Social media accounts and photos. A digital asset is anything that is created or stored digitally, provides value,
establishes ownership, and is discoverable. Examples of digital assets include social media accounts, photos,
email lists, websites, videos, documents, manuscripts, and intellectual property such as logos. Hardware,
printers, and desktop computers are physical, tangible objects that cannot be stored digitally. Therefore, they
are not examples of digital assets.
SOURCE: OP:517 Comply with strategies for protecting business' digital assets (e.g., website, social media,
email, etc.)
SOURCE: Frankenfield, J. (2023, September 9). Digital asset: Meaning, types, and importance. Retrieved
October 31, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/d/digital-asset-framework.asp

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

13

54. C
Content strategy. A content strategy is the practice of planning content, deliverables, or materials to be
presented to the public. In the case of social media, a content strategy helps businesses maintain a
professional online presence. A knowledge gap is an area or subject an individual or group don’t know anything
about. A labor contract is an agreement between a union and a company outlining the wages, fringe benefits,
working conditions, and rules under which employees will work. Cyberlaws are regulations that apply to online
activities.
SOURCE: CO:206 Distinguish between using social media for business and personal purposes
SOURCE: Gibbings, M. (2022, August 9). Strengthen your professional presence on social media. Retrieved
October 16, 2023, from https://hbr.org/2022/08/strengthen-your-professional-presence-on-socialmedia
55. A
$25 million. Free cash flow is the money that remains after a company pays for operating expenses and capital
expenditures. The formula for calculating free cash flow is: Free cash flow = Cash flow from operations –
Capital expenditures. When inserting the figures from this scenario, the formula is: Free cash flow = $100
million – $75 million. The difference is $25 million, making it the company's free cash flow.
SOURCE: FI:541 Interpret cash-flow statements
SOURCE: Murphy, C.B. (2023, October 7). What is the formula for calculating free cash flow? Retrieved
October 10, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/033015/what-formulacalculating-free-cash-flow.asp
56. C
Satisfaction. Customer satisfaction is a measure of how well a business or product meets or exceeds customer
expectations. If Zae is happy with his laptop, then he is demonstrating customer satisfaction. Customer loyalty
is a customer's preference for a business; in other words, how often the customer purchases the business's
goods or services. Customer appreciation is a term used to describe a business’s demonstration of goodwill to
customers. Customer feedback is evaluative or corrective information given by the customer to the salesperson.
Zae is not giving customer feedback in this instance.
SOURCE: MK:019 Demonstrate connections between company actions and results (e.g., influencing consumer
buying behavior, gaining market share, etc.)
SOURCE: LAP-MK-019—Just Do It...Right (Company Actions and Results)
57. D
Exit. An exit interview refers to discussions with employees who are leaving that are designed to gain feedback
for the business. In terms of knowledge management, exit interviews are used by companies as a way to
capture and transfer knowledge. An expert interview is used in market research to obtain information on the
market, consumers, products, and services. A personal interview is a data collection method in which a
researcher sits down with a respondent one-on-one to ask questions and record the respondent's answers. A
phone interview includes surveying individuals via phone to obtain research data.
SOURCE: KM:005 Identify techniques that can be used to capture and transfer knowledge in an organization
SOURCE: Bamboo HR. (2023). Exit interview. Retrieved October 27, 2023, from
https://www.bamboohr.com/resources/hr-glossary/exit-interview

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

14

58. A
Change. Change management is the process of guiding an organization through a change, including those
made to company cultures, procedures, technology, infrastructure, etc. Because Kelsey is working to implement
a new policy—which would be a significant change for the organization—she should work through the steps of a
change management plan. Channel management includes processes by which marketers ensure products are
distributed to customers efficiently and effectively. Crisis management is a public relations strategy that involves
the ongoing management, planning, and coordination of resources in the event undesirable circumstances
occur. Customer relationship management includes the strategies, processes, technology, and people a
business uses to build, maintain, and maximize the long-term value of customer relationships.
SOURCE: SM:095 Explain the nature of change management
SOURCE: Miller, K. (2020, March 19). 5 critical steps in the change management process. Retrieved
September 29, 2023, from https://online.hbs.edu/blog/post/change-management-process
59. B
Monitoring and controlling. Project monitoring and controlling is the fourth stage of the project management
process. It involves ensuring the project stays on track and taking the appropriate corrective measures if it
doesn’t. Therefore, identifying and resolving issues that arise during a project is most likely to occur during the
monitoring and controlling stage of project management—not the initiation, planning, or closing stages.
SOURCE: PJ:009 Execute and control projects
SOURCE: Doan, D. (2023, September 18). The 5 phases of project management. Retrieved October 18, 2023,
from https://blog.hubspot.com/marketing/project-management-phases
60. B
Mediating conflict and providing feedback. Managing a project team requires a lot of work, including mediating
conflict, resolving issues, managing team changes, tracking team member performance, and providing
feedback. Documenting progress and identifying risks are important steps in project management, but they
aren’t necessarily part of managing a project team.
SOURCE: PJ:007 Manage project team
SOURCE: Kissflow. (2023, October 10). 10 dynamic strategies for managing a project team. Retrieved October
26, 2023, from https://kissflow.com/project/project-team-management/
61. A
Company downsizing. Downsizing, or reducing the size and payroll of a company by eliminating workers, would
be most likely to inspire changes to business processes. When companies cut costs and reduce manpower,
they are often forced to significantly change their processes to accommodate for the changes in budget and
manpower. Meeting with a new client or firing a single employee are unlikely to inspire business process
changes because they are relatively insignificant events in comparison. A routine safety inspection may bring
about process changes if a safety hazard is discovered, but this occurrence is less likely to inspire change than
the downsizing of an entire company.
SOURCE: OP:476 Explain the causes of business process changes
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2022, December 26). Business process redesign (BPR). Retrieved October 27, 2023,
from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/b/business-process-redesign.asp

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

15

62. A
Accessible. One of the biggest advantages of internal data is that they are readily available for analysis. The
ability to make quick decisions is enhanced by almost-instant access to information. Internal data are not
necessarily more accurate or impartial than external data. The accuracy and impartiality of data depends on the
validity and dependability of the sources providing the data. Internal data are usually less comprehensive than
external data because external data comprise all sources of information outside a business, including data from
the internet, other businesses, and academic studies.
SOURCE: NF:014 Monitor internal records for business information
SOURCE: Lido. (2023). Managing internal and external data to optimize your business. Retrieved September
29, 2023, from https://www.lido.app/post/internal-and-external-data
63. D
Continuous. Though each business is unique, there are certain staffing tasks that every organization
undertakes. Unlike organizing (another managerial function), staffing is a continuous activity—it’s happening
across the business, all the time. Organizing lays the foundation for staffing, but staffing is what gets employees
in the door and in the right job positions. Staffing is not necessarily a technological, emotional, or risky activity.
SOURCE: SM:065 Describe managerial considerations in staffing
SOURCE: LAP-SM-065—Dream Team Maker (Staffing)
64. B
Replace the product. If consumers don’t buy a product, the producer must change it, replace it, or go out of
business. Each time a consumer makes a purchase, they are casting an economic vote in the marketplace.
These economic votes enable consumers to control what will be produced. Raising the product’s price will likely
further discourage customers from buying the product. Hiring new employees does not address the issue that
customers do not like the product. Suing customers would not increase sales, and there would likely be no
grounds for a lawsuit.
SOURCE: EC:009 Explain the concept of private enterprise
SOURCE: LAP-EC-909—People Power (The Private Enterprise System)
65. D
Sales numbers. Quantitative data are numerical facts and figures such as time and money. Sales numbers are
an example of monetary data that are not subjective. Feedback forms, diaries and logs, and focus groups are
examples of qualitative data.
SOURCE: OP:521 Evaluate project success
SOURCE: LAP-OP-521—Making the Grade (Evaluating Project Success)
66. B
Provide consistent communication. Maintaining clear and consistent communication channels is one of the most
important principles of supplier relationships. Regular communications will help all involved parties better
understand each other’s operations, culture, and vision. It is important to be proactive, not reactive, when
maintaining supplier relationships. It is a mistake to overpromise business opportunities or attempt practices
that are infeasible. Businesses should embrace automated technologies because they help improve virtually
any business processes, including vendor relationships.
SOURCE: OP:241 Maintain vendor/supplier relationships
SOURCE: Lavelle, E. (2023, October 23). 10 ways to improve your supplier relationships. Retrieved October
23, 2023, from https://enable.com/blog/10-ways-to-improve-your-supplier-relationships

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

16

67. D
Motivating. Motivation is the process of getting employees to strive to achieve management’s objectives
because they want to achieve them. In an ideal world, employees would want to reach the company’s goals just
out of the goodness of their hearts—but that’s not how people are. In the workplace, motivation keeps
employees working hard and putting forth as much effort as they can to achieve their own goals. This is not an
example of instructing, planning, or delegating.
SOURCE: SM:066 Discuss managerial considerations in directing
SOURCE: LAP-SM-066—Take Action (Managerial Directing)
68. A
Automation. Automation is the method of using technology to complete tasks for the purpose of reducing human
effort and labor. As machines and computers become more intelligent, they will continue to further the
usefulness of automation in supply chains and supply chain management. Raw materials are items in their
natural state or condition—raw materials have been an important element of supply chains well before the
implementation of machine learning and AI. Manual labor is decreasing due to machine learning and AI, not
increasing. Tariffs are not directly related to automation.
SOURCE: OP:478 Describe the impact of technology on supply chain management
SOURCE: Stackpole, B. (2020, February 14). 5 supply chain technologies that deliver competitive advantage.
Retrieved October 23, 2023, from https://mitsloan.mit.edu/ideas-made-to-matter/5-supply-chaintechnologies-deliver-competitive-advantage
69. D
It can be gained through an experience. Tacit knowledge is knowledge an individual possesses that is difficult to
transfer to others either verbally or in writing. Tacit knowledge is gained through some sort of experience. Tacit
knowledge is harder to grasp than explicit knowledge, which is knowledge that can be easily communicated to
others or readily captured and stored in some type of document or database.
SOURCE: KM:001 Explain the nature of knowledge management
SOURCE: LAP-KM-001—Know Go (The Nature of Knowledge Management)
70. D
Up-to-date knowledge of laws and regulations. Risk management is a business activity that involves the
planning, controlling, preventing, and procedures used by management to limit business losses. To implement
effective risk management, you should have up-to-date knowledge of laws and regulations, as this will help an
organization avoid losses due to legal noncompliance. A long-term career plan, an advertising campaign, and
membership in a professional organization will not necessarily help you implement effective risk management.
SOURCE: RM:043 Discuss legal considerations affecting risk management
SOURCE: Gracy, M. (2023, September 2). How to implement risk management framework (quick guide).
Retrieved October 10, 2023, from https://sprinto.com/blog/risk-management-framework/
71. B
The party that makes a formal legal complaint. Litigation is the formal process during which legal disputes are
involved. The plaintiff in the litigation process refers to the person or party that initiates a case and makes a
formal legal complaint. The defendant is the person or party that the plaintiff has a legal issue with. Defendants
must answer the complaint and defend themselves. A judge is a public official appointed to preside over court
proceedings. A jury is the body of people sworn to give a verdict in a legal case based on evidence presented in
court.
SOURCE: BL:160 Describe the litigation process
SOURCE: Bieber, C. (2023, April 24). What is litigation? Understanding the litigation process. Retrieved
October 4, 2023, from https://www.forbes.com/advisor/legal/litigation

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

17

72. B
Creates unnecessary problems for everyone else. By not following the chain of command, you can create
unnecessary complications for everyone else. Within a chain of command, everyone has their own specific
responsibilities. When someone breaks the chain, complications can quickly begin to affect everyone. Not
following the chain of command reflects poorly—not positively—on you, and it may get you in trouble. Not
following the chain of command will likely not lead to you receiving a promotion; it is more likely you will be
reprimanded, demoted, or even fired. A benefit of following the chain of command is that it maintains order in
your organization, allowing you to do your work in peace.
SOURCE: PD:252 Follow chain of command
SOURCE: LAP-PD-252—Don’t Cheat the Chain (Following Chain of Command)
73. C
Currency. Foreign exchange risks—also called currency risk, FX risk, and exchange-rate risk—occur when a
currency’s exchange rate fluctuates, thereby impacting the value of an investment. Because exchange rates
can be volatile, it is difficult to protect against this type of international risk. Foreign exchange risk is also not
called human, social, or environmental risk.
SOURCE: RM:092 Describe international considerations affecting risk management
SOURCE: Beers, B. (2023, July 17). Top risks for international businesses. Retrieved October 4, 2023, from
https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/06/internationalfinancerisks.asp
74. D
Tolerating ambiguity means being OK with uncertainty. Ambiguity is a state of vagueness, doubt, and
uncertainty. Tolerance is the capacity to accept deviation from the norm. Tolerating ambiguity, therefore, means
being OK with uncertainty and dealing with it effectively. Ambiguity and risk go hand in hand, as risk is inherent
in virtually all ambiguous situations, especially if there’s a chance that things could go wrong. As much as we
would like to avoid it, uncertainty and ambiguity are everywhere and unavoidable. They are a part of life. You
never know what will happen to you on any given day, no matter how much planning you attempt to do.
SOURCE: EI:092 Develop tolerance for ambiguity
SOURCE: LAP-EI-092—Embrace the Unknown (Developing a Tolerance for Ambiguity)
75. B
Lessons-learned document. The lessons-learned document is a project-end summary of what went well, what
didn’t go well, and how to improve in the future. It allows project teams to identify areas of inefficiency, record
their processes, and document knowledge gained from experience. A SWOT analysis is a marketing tool that
investigates a business’s strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats in an organized fashion.
Communities of practice are diverse groups of employees across the organization who regularly meet to share
knowledge and communicate with one another to encourage knowledge management practices. A risk checklist
is a standardized list of risks that a business faces regularly, used to speed up the risk-identification process.
SOURCE: PJ:008 Close project
SOURCE: Eby, K. (2021, May 6). Guide to lessons learned in project management. Retrieved October 18,
2023, from https://www.smartsheet.com/content/lessons-learned

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

18

76. D
Establishing goals. Planning is the management function of deciding what will be done and how it will be
accomplished, which includes establishing goals and making decisions about business objectives. Determining
tasks is an organizing activity. Interviewing applicants is a staffing activity. Instructing employees is a directing
activity.
SOURCE: SM:063 Discuss the nature of managerial planning
SOURCE: Brigden, B. (2023, May 26). The four functions of management: Overview + examples. Retrieved
October 4, 2023, from https://www.teamwork.com/blog/the-four-functions-of-management-overviewexamples/
77. D
Build rapport. To maintain good customer relationships, salespeople should build rapport with customers.
Rapport is an amicable, close relationship between individuals. Salespeople do not have to buy products with
customers or see eye-to-eye with them to maintain good customer relationships. While going to special events
with customers can build rapport with them, it is not the only way to build rapport.
SOURCE: CR:029 Develop rapport with customers
SOURCE: Marketing Donut. (2023). Building rapport with your customers. Retrieved October 16, 2023, from
https://www.marketingdonut.co.uk/customer-care/customer-service/building-rapport-with-yourcustomers
78. A
Prepare the organization for change. Change management is the process of guiding an organization through a
change, including those made to company cultures, procedures, technology, infrastructure, etc. Before any
change can take place, it is important to prepare the organization—both logistically and culturally—for change.
Developing a plan for change, implementing the changes, and review progress and analyzing results are
important steps in the change management process, but they should be done after preparing the organization
for change.
SOURCE: SM:096 Explain the change-management lifecycle
SOURCE: Miller, K. (2020, March 19). 5 critical steps in the change management process. Retrieved
September 29, 2023, from https://online.hbs.edu/blog/post/change-management-process
79. C
Intellectual property. Certain types of knowledge, such as published works, inventions, and brand names, are
protected by law. These are referred to as intellectual property. When an organization is trying to determine
whether it owns knowledge, it is dealing with intellectual property law. This situation is not necessarily related to
trust, organizational culture, or intentionality.
SOURCE: KM:002 Discuss the role of ethics in knowledge management
SOURCE: LAP-KM-002—Know What’s Right (Ethics in Knowledge Management)
80. A
Feedforward. Feedforward controls are those that attempt to monitor and control performance before it occurs.
For example, if a manager sets rules for how employees are supposed to clock in and out of a shift, this
feedforward control is meant to prevent any issues with time-tracking from occurring in the first place.
Concurrent controls are those that monitor and control performance while it is occurring. Feedback controls are
those that monitor and control performance after it has already occurred. Vertical control is not a widely
acknowledged term in business.
SOURCE: SM:004 Describe the nature of managerial control (control process, types of control, what is
controlled)
SOURCE: LAP-SM-400—Measure Up! (Managerial Control)

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

19

81. D
SWOT. A SWOT analysis analyzes strengths and weaknesses (internal factors) as well as opportunities and
threats (external factors). It is useful when evaluating an organization's competitive position and to develop
strategic planning. A MOST (Mission, Objective, Strategy, Tactics) analysis is a method for providing targets to
team members at every level of an organization, ensuring that the organization retains focus on its goals. A
PESTLE (Political, Economic, Sociological, Technological, Legal, Environmental) analysis identifies and
analyzes the key drivers of change in the strategic or business environment. The MosCoW (Must or Should,
Could or Would) method is a four-step approach to prioritizing which project requirements provide the best
return on investment.
SOURCE: OP:327 Discuss the nature of business analysis
SOURCE: Adesope, B. (2017, May 10). Top 5 techniques in business analysis. Retrieved October 31, 2023,
from https://www.batimes.com/articles/top-5-techniques-in-business-analysis
82. D
Identify negotiation objectives. The first step in negotiating terms with vendors is to identify the desired
outcomes of the negotiations. When procurement specialists can clearly identify their negotiation objectives,
they can confidently enter discussions with vendors. Finalizing a vendor contract comes at the end of
negotiations when terms have been agreed upon. Confidentiality agreements should not be drafted until details
of the purchasing agreement are clear. It would be premature to pursue other opportunities before negotiations
even begin.
SOURCE: OP:337 Negotiate terms with vendors in business
SOURCE: Bucki, J. (2020, April 8). Contract negotiation strategies to select the right vendor. Retrieved October
23, 2023, from https://www.liveabout.com/contract-negotiation-strategies-2533815
83. D
Promoting competition in the marketplace. Federal fair-trade laws are enforced by the Federal Trade
Commission (FTC)—the regulatory agency that enforces consumer-protection laws and antitrust laws to
prevent price fixing and to prohibit unfair competitive practices. The FTC was created to promote competition
and protect consumers from deceptive and fraudulent practices in the marketplace. Determining if a product
poses a danger to the public and banning products deemed dangerous to the public are goals of federal safety
laws. Federal law governs written product warranties, while state laws govern implied product warranties.
SOURCE: OP:339 Discuss legal considerations in operations
SOURCE: Bonner, M. (2019, September 5). How consumer protection laws affect businesses. Retrieved
October 31, 2023, from https://thebalancemoney.com/how-consumer-protection-laws-affectbusinesses-4161325
84. D
Business process design. Business process design, typically done when starting a new business, means
creating a new workflow. A structured approach to business process design typically involves mapping, task
identification, and analysis. If Cameron is starting a new business and needs to determine the company’s
different workflows and procedures, he would be helped most by business process design. A 457 plan
(retirement plan for government employees), automation (use of technology), and SWOT analysis (marketing
tool) would not help Cameron determine the company’s workflows and procedures.
SOURCE: OP:475 Describe the factors that influence business process design
SOURCE: Tallyfy. (n.d.). Business process design (BPD): What it is and how it works. Retrieved October 26,
2023, from https://tallyfy.com/business-process-design/

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

20

85. A
It is used to track assignments. Project management software is used to track assignments as well as the
numbers of hours worked by a team on projects. Project management software is especially useful for
companies that have remote employees because it provides a digital space for collaboration. Project
management software improves both communication and production.
SOURCE: NF:130 Utilize project-management software
SOURCE: Johnson, S. (2023, April 28). How project management software can improve your business.
Retrieved October 11, 2023, from https://www.businessnewsdaily.com/15883-project-managementsoftware.html
86. C
Forward. Forward integration is integration toward the distribution end of the supply chain. Therefore, a
manufacturer acquiring firms at the distribution end of the supply chain is an example of forward integration.
Backwards integration is the acquisition of firms at the supplier end of the supply chain. Negative and positive
integration are not types of integration in supply chain management.
SOURCE: OP:303 Discuss the nature of supply chain management
SOURCE: LAP-OP-303—Top of the (Supply) Chain (Nature of Supply Chain Management)
87. D
Total Quality Management. Quality management is the ongoing process of planning, implementing, and
integrating quality into every aspect of an organization. The Total Quality Management (TQM) framework
emphasizes customer satisfaction and is based on the idea that all employees are responsible for ensuring
quality. Other TQM principles include continuous improvement, process adherence, a systematic approach, and
data utilization. Lean management, often referred to simply as “lean,” is a quality-control method that focuses
on maximizing customer value while minimizing waste. Six Sigma is a popular quality-management
methodology that relies on a five-step approach to improve any business process. Herzberg’s Two-Factor
Theory is a content theory of motivation in which human needs are classified into hygiene factors and
motivation factors.
SOURCE: QM:002 Describe the nature of quality management frameworks (e.g., Six Sigma, ITIL, CMMI)
SOURCE: Barone, A. (2023, June 7). What is Total Quality Management (TQM) and why is it important?
Retrieved October 10, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/t/total-quality-managementtqm.asp
88. A
Update data in all locations for consistency. Tyreek should be sure to update data in all locations for
consistency. Doing so will prevent anyone in the company from using the previous data. Tyreek should not
delete all files with old data; rather, he should keep files of those data in case he or someone else in the
company needs to reference them. Tyreek should not keep the information to himself. Printing a copy of the
new data would not make sure it is updated in all locations for others to use.
SOURCE: NF:264 Adhere to data change best practices
SOURCE: Miya, A., & Rogers, M. (2020, December 14). Four data management best practices. Retrieved
October 11, 2023, from https://www.searchdiscovery.com/blog/4-data-management-best-practices

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

21

89. B
Audit. Knowledge management is the process of creating, identifying, collecting, organizing, sharing, and using
knowledge and knowledge sources for the benefit of the organization or business. A knowledge audit, the
second stage of the knowledge management process, involves finding and assessing the knowledge you
already possess and identifying gaps that exist. The capture stage involves both extracting useful information
from a variety of sources and creating new information identified during the audit stage. The deliver stage
involves delivering, or distributing, the knowledge. The optimize stage involves incorporating AI, machine
learning, and analytics to process knowledge, offer solutions, and provide analysis to enable optimization of the
system.
SOURCE: KM:018 Apply knowledge management processes
SOURCE: eGain. (2023). What is a knowledge management process? Retrieved October 27, 2023, from
https://www.egain.com/what-is-knowledge-management-process
90. A
Reverse logistics. Reverse logistics refers to the backward movement of products through the supply chain,
from customers to distributors, manufacturers, or suppliers. By developing a reverse logistics plan, Delia can
help her client create a better system of product returns. Order fulfillment is the complete act of receiving,
processing, and shipping a customer’s order, and is not directly connected to returning products. Market
segmentation is the division of a total market into smaller, more specific groups. Data mining is the process of
searching, collecting, and analyzing large amounts of data to extract actionable information.
SOURCE: OP:677 Discuss ethical considerations in supply chain management
SOURCE: OpenText. (2019, October 7). What is the ethical supply chain? Retrieved October 23, 2023, from
https://blogs.opentext.com/what-is-the-ethical-supply-chain
91. D
Standardization. Business processes create standardization, or the organization of work so that it is always
done in the same way. This increases efficiency and reduces the risk of errors or inconsistencies. Advertising is
any paid form of nonpersonal presentation of ideas, goods, or services. While there can be business processes
within advertising, business processes do not lead to advertisements themselves. People knowledge is an
awareness and recognition of different people and cultures and is not necessarily created by business
processes. While business processes can help determine sales quotas, they do not specifically introduce them
to a business.
SOURCE: OP:474 Discuss business process thinking and its impact
SOURCE: Pitagorsky, G. (2016, August 3). The importance of process thinking. Retrieved October 27, 2023,
from https://www.projecttimes.com/articles/the-importance-of-process-thinking/
92. A
Summarizing findings. The final step to writing a recommendation report is to summarize your findings. By
summarizing your findings, it makes it easier for the audience to interpret your recommendations and draw their
own conclusions. The first step of writing a recommendation report is to select a format. This is followed by
describing the situation, conducting research, qualifying alternatives, and, finally, summarizing findings.
SOURCE: CO:185 Write analytical reports (i.e., reports that examine a problem/issue and recommend an
action)
SOURCE: Small Business - Chron. (2021, June 17). Steps to take in writing a recommendation report.
Retrieved October 4, 2023, from https://work.chron.com/steps-writing-recommendation-report28828.html

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

22

93. A
Chronological order. Chronological order places information or data into sequences of time or dates. By
organizing information based on time—oldest to newest—Jaylynn is organizing her information chronologically.
The order of importance method sorts information based on strength or relevance. Comparison and contrast
method identifies similarities and differences between information. Deductive organization begins with a
hypothesis, recommendation, or thesis and is followed by supportive facts and reasoning.
SOURCE: CO:086 Organize information
SOURCE: Burke, A. (2019, March 7). Examples of methods of organization. Retrieved October 16, 2023,
https://smallbusiness.chron.com/examples-methods-organization-18982.html
94. B
Database. A database is a virtual storage unit for information, including information about people, products, and
transactions. Social media are any forms of electronic communications through which users build communities,
network, share information, etc. A stock screener is an online tool for investors that filters stock choices using a
predetermined set of criteria. A consensus scale is a tool used to measure each group member’s feelings
toward a proposed decision or solution.
SOURCE: NF:141 Access information in the database system
SOURCE: Microsoft. (2023). Database basics. Retrieved November 8, 2023, from
https://support.microsoft.com/en-au/office/database-basics-a849ac16-07c7-4a31-99483c8c94a7c204
95. A
Adaptable. Being open-minded means being adaptable and flexible because it requires being willing to consider
different perspectives. Therefore, stubbornness—an unwillingness to change—is not an aspect of being open to
new ideas. Part of being open-minded is stepping out of your comfort zone. Being open to new ideas does not
necessarily mean your ideas are wrong. While that is sometimes the case, what is more important is that you
are willing to be adaptable and change your beliefs and ideas.
SOURCE: EI:136 Consider conflicting viewpoints
SOURCE: LAP-EI-136—Pick a Side (Considering Conflicting Viewpoints)
96. A
Conformance. In the business world, quality often refers to excellence, value, satisfaction, and conformance.
Conforming to predetermined specifications is an aspect of quality that has plenty of examples in the
manufacturing industry. Let’s say a manufacturer is producing glass bottles. Each bottle should be a certain size
and shape and should have no rough edges. If a bottle does not meet these specifications, it isn’t a quality
product. Businesses strive to keep these variations or defects to a minimum, keeping the overall quality of their
production output as high as possible. Quality does not typically refer to empathy, technology, or quantity.
SOURCE: QM:001 Explain the nature of quality management
SOURCE: LAP-QM-001—Keep It Quality (Nature of Quality Management)
97. C
Buying a backpack. Buying a new backpack is a limited decision because it is not made frequently and involves
some degree of consideration. Taking a shower and ordering lunch are everyday decisions that are considered
routine decisions. Purchasing a car carries substantial risk and long-term impact—therefore, it is an extensive
decision, not a limited decision.
SOURCE: EI:091 Assess risks of personal decisions
SOURCE: LAP-EI-091—Worth the Risk (Assessing Risks of Personal Decisions)

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

23

98. A
Measurable. A measurable goal is trackable and indicates if and when you’ve been successful. Because Artem
established a goal that is easy to track, he has set a measurable goal. Goals are not typically described as
sympathetic. Goals should be relevant—and they can be professional—but neither of these qualities is
demonstrated in this example.
SOURCE: PJ:005 Initiate project
SOURCE: Landau, P. (2023, August 5). How to write SMART goals: SMART goal examples. Retrieved October
26, 2023, from https://www.projectmanager.com/blog/how-to-create-smart-goals
99. C
Crashing a project. Crashing a project means increasing a project’s resources to speed up its timeline. In this
example, Rachel spent more money on a rush printing job so the annual report would be ready for the annual
conference on time. This is not an example of delegating responsibilities, demonstrating honesty, or prioritizing
cost-effectiveness.
SOURCE: PJ:010 Manage project schedule
SOURCE: Simmons, M. (2020, September 16). Project crashing in project management: Definition & best
practices. Retrieved October 18, 2023, from https://www.projectmanager.com/blog/project-crashingdefinition
100. C
Learning. Knowledge is the intangible combination of human experiences, insights, and intuitions that provide
structure for interpreting and reacting to the world around you. Knowledge cannot be acquired without learning
or an educational experience of some kind. Experience is a great way to gain knowledge, but knowledge can be
gained without experience. Compensation and empathy are not required to acquire knowledge.
SOURCE: SM:094 Describe relationship among innovation, learning, and change
SOURCE: Leaman, C. (2016, October 5). The difference between learning and knowledge, and why you should
care. Retrieved October 4, 2023, from https://www.learningguild.com/articles/2079/the-differencebetween-learning-and-knowledge-and-why-you-should-care/?rd=1

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

