Competency-Based
Competitive Events
*Written Exam*
for State/Province Use
Test Number 1293
Booklet Number _____

Finance Cluster Exam
ACT – Accounting Applications Series Event
BFS – Business Finance Series Event
FCE – Financial Consulting Event
FTDM – Financial Services Team Decision Making Event

INSTRUCTIONS: This is a timed, comprehensive exam for the occupational area
identified above. Do not open this booklet until instructed to do so by the
testing monitor. You will have _____ minutes to complete all questions.

CAUTION: Posting these materials on a website is a copyright violation.
This comprehensive exam was developed by MBA Research exclusively for DECA’s
2023-2024 Competitive Events Program. Items have been randomly selected from the MBA
Research Test-Item Bank and represent a variety of instructional areas. Performance indicators
for this exam are at the prerequisite, career-sustaining, and specialist levels. A descriptive test
key, including question sources and answer rationale, has been provided to the DECA
chartered association advisor.

Copyright © 2024 by Marketing & Business Administration Research and
Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio (dba MBA Research). Each individual test item contained
herein is the exclusive property of MBA Research. Items are licensed to DECA only for use as
configured within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose other than as
specifically authorized is prohibited. Possession of this exam, without written authorization,
under any other circumstances is a copyright violation. Posting to inter- or intranet sites is
specifically forbidden unless written permission is obtained prior to posting. Report violations to
DECA at 703.860.5000 and MBA Research at 800.448.0398. Permission for reprinting is
granted to DECA chartered associations authorized by DECA Inc.
DECA Inc. will impose sanctions on chapters and chartered associations for violations of this
policy up to and including disqualification of competitors and chapters from further participation.

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM

1. Which of the following indirect manufacturing costs is a company most likely to include in the cost allocation of
its individual products:
A. Heat and lighting costs
B. Administrative salaries
C. Cost of labor
D. Raw product materials
2. Statements about a present or desired strength are called
A. roles.
B. images.
C. visualizations.
D. affirmations.
3. Protecting the investments of shareholders is a primary responsibility of
A. company employees.
B. company lawyers.
C. the board of directors.
D. upper level managers.
4. A primary responsibility of financial-information management is to
A. report financial transactions.
B. negotiate contracts with vendors.
C. implement sales policies.
D. develop new products.
5. Tanya recently enrolled in night classes to learn how to code. She knows that her new skills will help her
perform her current job more effectively—and perhaps even earn her a promotion. Tanya understands
A. that her employer will fire her if she doesn't learn to code.
B. the need for ongoing education as a worker.
C. that younger employees are less qualified than her.
D. the push for employees to work longer hours.
6. What might an employee receive from a business for routinely helping customers with their problems and
satisfying their needs?
A. A compliment
B. A promotion
C. A thank-you
D. An expense account
7. Employee involvement in company decisions often leads to greater employee
A. burnout.
B. satisfaction.
C. sales.
D. relocation.

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

1

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM

2

8. Heidi puts $562 into a savings account with a simple interest rate of 0.5%. How much income from interest can
Heidi expect to earn after five years?
A. $576.05
B. $14.05
C. $140.50
D. $28.10
9. If Kayla wants to obtain the most current pricing for various stocks, she should
A. review a business's annual report.
B. pick up a business-oriented newspaper.
C. visit the "About Us" section of a business's website.
D. access a financial website.
10. A local automotive parts manufacturer was forced to close because unemployment caused a decline in
automobile sales. This is an example of a problem caused by a(n) __________ change.
A. personal
B. economic
C. technological
D. social
11. Karen needs to cut expenses to save money. Which budget should she consult?
A. Cash
B. Financial
C. Static
D. Operational
12. If your personal budget has been created correctly, your income and expense columns should be
A. about $1,000 each.
B. equal to one another.
C. exactly $500 each.
D. different from one another.
13. Customer Relationship Management (CRM) processes should support the basic steps of the __________
cycle.
A. business
B. accounting
C. customer life
D. customer complaint
14. Your ability to empathize with someone else is limited by the number/nature of your experiences and by your
A. physical traits.
B. intelligence.
C. self-understanding.
D. job skills.

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM

15. How could financial analysis applications be used to identify possible conflicts of interest?
A. By comparing vendor payables posted to purchase orders
B. By comparing yearly volume with on-hand quantity for stock items
C. By comparing employee phone numbers and addresses to vendor information for payables
D. By isolating entries against authorization records for new or terminated employees
16. Before extending credit, businesses should analyze their customers'
A. technical assets.
B. stock purchases.
C. capital gains.
D. debt ratios.
17. Which of the following situations best demonstrates why businesses should retain their records:
A. A business is planning to send press releases to the local newspaper.
B. A business is planning to send anniversary cards to employees on the date of their employment.
C. A business is planning to sell out to another company.
D. A business is planning to use webinars for employee training.
18. For which of the following types of credit would you need to ask a customer to make a down payment:
A. Revolving credit account
B. Installment loan
C. Open account
D. Option account
19. Which of the following is true about the debt market:
A. Its participants may benefit from dividends.
B. Its investments typically involve less risk.
C. It is known for being unstable by nature.
D. It is commonly called the stock market.
20. Nick is considering buying stock in a tech company that everyone is talking about, but first he wants to make
sure that the company is in good financial shape. Where is the best place to find information that will help him
make his decision?
A. Real-time stock quotes
B. Financial statements
C. Economic trends reports
D. Industry news reports
21. How can a business determine whether it is more profitable this year than last year?
A. By determining whether owner's equity is positive or negative
B. By comparing the income statement's net profit figures for those two years
C. By comparing the income statement's operating expenses for those two years
D. By determining whether assets minus liabilities equals owner's equity

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

3

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM

4

22. As the use of information-management systems continues to grow, it is important for businesses to be
concerned with their customers'
A. access to credit.
B. need for information.
C. rights to privacy.
D. level of service.
23. Information that has been printed for publication is often more reliable than many internet sources because
A. publishers do not support special interest groups.
B. published information is current and up to date.
C. the information is typically carefully checked for accuracy.
D. authors have affiliations with professional organizations.
24. When a company analyzes data from a customer relationship management system to discover patterns of
behavior, what technique is it using?
A. Data mining
B. Data collection
C. Customer service
D. Social networking
25. Clayton recently invested $50,000 in an oil company. The company has agreed to use Clayton's investment
strictly for exploration purposes. Rather than writing off $50,000 from its corporate taxes, the company passed
the deduction on to Clayton. Clayton can now write off the entire amount of his investment against his taxes.
Clayton invested his money in
A. flow-through shares.
B. derivatives.
C. government bonds.
D. offshore companies.
26. Businesses should strive to behave ethically in addition to fulfilling their obligations to the law. This is because
when people are free to start a business and pursue success, they also accept a level of
A. transparency.
B. ethical principles.
C. stakeholders.
D. social responsibility.
27. Forming an evaluation team; defining the product, service, or material; and determining the business
requirements are all steps of
A. vendor selection.
B. financial analysis.
C. marketing research.
D. customer targeting.

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM

5

28. Wayne keeps his work area neat so he can focus on his job without being surrounded by chaos. What
employee action does this illustrate?
A. Observing safety standards
B. Showing up on time
C. Staying organized
D. Meeting deadlines
29. If a company decides to adopt a Lean methodology, one of its primary focuses will be to
A. lessen defects.
B. eliminate waste.
C. reduce variation.
D. slow down processes.
30. Which of the following are examples of detective internal controls:
A. Monthly reconciliation of bank accounts and accepting inventory
B. Audits and reconciliation of petty cash accounts
C. Making purchases and approving payments
D. Authorizing invoices and verifying expenses
31. To determine the bills that are due in the next 10 days and the dollar amount of each bill, a company needs to
use a financial analysis application to evaluate its
A. accounts payable.
B. dividend payments.
C. credit rating.
D. sales revenue.
32. How do finance companies commonly raise capital?
A. Investing deposits from savers
B. Issuing notes, bonds, and other obligations
C. Establishing mutual funds and investment banks
D. Investing funds from premium payments
33. Supervised by the Federal Reserve Board, The DAB Company provides investment advisory services,
insurance underwriting, securities underwriting, and merchant banking services. What does The DAB Company
exemplify?
A. A commodities investor
B. A financial holding company
C. An accounting firm
D. A central bank
34. When making business decisions, which of the following costs is most likely to be evaluated using qualitative
information versus numerical data:
A. Direct costs
B. Sunk costs
C. Opportunity costs
D. Indirect costs

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM

35. What is a potential negative consequence to a business that fails to manage risk by implementing an ethics
training program for employees?
A. Damaged reputation
B. Decreased conflict
C. Inflated profit margins
D. Increased credit rating
36. Financial globalization tends to cause an increase in
A. taxes on international transactions.
B. herd behavior among investors.
C. limits on foreigners' access to domestic markets.
D. investors' exposure to business cycle risks.
37. Which of the following is one way that business employees can relieve work-related stress:
A. Strive for perfection
B. Ignore the problem
C. Exercise regularly
D. Vacation frequently
38. Which of the following is a benefit of financial-information management software:
A. Provides users with faster, better access to data from multiple sources
B. Reduces risk and lowers confidence in the confidentiality and safety of data
C. Improves productivity by replacing automated activities with manual tasks
D. Lowers compliance costs by eliminating audit trails and economies of scale
39. Which of the following elements are needed to determine the future value of money that is placed in a savings
account for one year:
A. Principal amount and interest rate
B. Interest rates and annual income
C. Late fees and insurance rates
D. Quarterly wages and principal amount
40. A company's board of directors is often responsible for __________ and __________ the top executives.
A. supporting; assessing
B. promoting; networking
C. replacing; auditing
D. encouraging; shadowing
41. Business decision makers can best analyze the financial impact of increased production by evaluating
__________ cost.
A. sunk
B. average
C. marginal
D. fixed

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

6

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM

42. How can a company limit the chance that it will face lawsuits for negligence?
A. Purchase captive insurance
B. Implement risk management strategies
C. Hire lawyers to find loopholes in regulations
D. Limit its interaction with customers
43. People most often write letters of application when responding to job leads they have found
A. through networking.
B. in business windows.
C. in publicity brochures.
D. online.
44. To obtain a job promotion is an example of a __________ goal.
A. physical
B. social
C. personal
D. career
45. Which of the following statements about Benford's law of anomalous numbers is true:
A. It is used to detect patterns in a data set.
B. It states all digits in a data set occur equally.
C. It cannot be used to catch anomalies.
D. It cannot be used to detect fraud.
46. When businesses compete by offering consumers higher quality products, increased customer service, and
attractive stores, they are engaging in __________ competition.
A. nonprice
B. direct
C. price
D. pure
47. In addition to collecting, maintaining, and reporting data about financial transactions, financial-information
management is also responsible for analyzing and reporting
A. dominant buying motives.
B. market and competitive indicators.
C. participative decision-making.
D. recent third-party agreements.
48. Why do businesses implement chains of command?
A. To prevent employees from staging an uprising
B. To satisfy the requirements of labor unions
C. To keep business operations flowing smoothly
D. To present a positive image to the public

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

7

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM

8

49. If you invent a new type of technological device, what type of intellectual property protection should you seek to
make sure that no one else starts making the same product?
A. Patent
B. Copyright
C. Trademark
D. Trade secret
50. Which of the following components of a securities table indicates the last price paid when trading ended for the
day:
A. Volume
B. Net change
C. Yield
D. Close
51. When preparing for a speech, it's most important to
A. practice.
B. design visual aids.
C. write note cards.
D. plan your appearance.
52. Lucy authorized her accountant, attorney, and life-insurance agent to care for her assets and make decisions
regarding her money and property. Her accountant, attorney, and life-insurance agent are her
A. fiduciaries.
B. relationship experts.
C. bookkeepers.
D. economists.
53. When the Consumer Price Index (CPI) increases sharply, stock prices usually
A. fall.
B. stay the same.
C. fluctuate daily.
D. rise.
54. Evan is a managerial accountant. His manager is deciding whether to expand the sales team. Evan can best
help his manager with this decision by
A. providing feedback on job candidates after their interviews.
B. examining the profitability of various products.
C. summarizing overall financial performance.
D. determining how much new hires would impact the budget.
55. Which of the following is a way in which managerial accountants can help a company's management:
A. Accumulating data on costs and profits
B. Hiring and training new employees
C. Releasing financial information to the public
D. Setting competitive product or service prices

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM

56. Blake is interested in a career in finance. He values flexibility, life-work balance, and entrepreneurship. What
type of career should Blake pursue?
A. Hedge fund trader
B. Portfolio manager
C. Underwriter
D. Certified financial planner
57. Which financial statement should an investor use to quickly determine a company's “bottom line”?
A. Cash flow statement
B. Income statement
C. Statement of retained earnings
D. Balance sheet
58. Cost accounting budgets are based on __________, but they
A. past data; project future results.
B. marketing and sales; focus on operations.
C. guesswork; are fairly accurate.
D. internal company information; support external clients.
59. What is one way that companies can reduce the risks associated with unethical behavior?
A. Establishing rewards for ethical behavior
B. Training only top-level executives on ethics
C. Making it difficult to report unethical conduct
D. Implementing complex, intricate guidelines
60. Customer trust can provide a business with
A. a competitive advantage.
B. more effective advertising campaigns.
C. better credit terms.
D. discounts on raw materials.
61. The amount of a product that is produced is most directly affected by
A. product value.
B. product utility.
C. labor unions.
D. consumer demand.
62. One risk of business consolidation is
A. clashes in corporate culture.
B. elimination of redundancy.
C. growth of market share.
D. diversification of products.

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

9

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM

10

63. A company installs automatic sprinklers in all of its facilities. Which of the following techniques is the company
using to combat the internal threat of fire:
A. Loss prevention
B. Loss avoidance
C. Loss reduction
D. Risk transfer
64. Good governance is most likely to make a company's investment decisions
A. more vulnerable to outside risk.
B. subject to individuals' influence.
C. more ethical.
D. less regulated.
65. Which of the following is a common problem that financial institutions experience when dealing with compliance:
A. Growing importance of technology
B. Lack of coordination
C. Long-term thinking
D. Too much emphasis on risk management
66. The use of email may put a business at more risk than memos or letters stored as paper records because
A. email communications contain confidential information.
B. email users may use slang or make embarrassing remarks.
C. email users may make careless spelling errors.
D. email communications are more difficult to secure.
67. Financial markets promote long-term economic development by
A. directing the flow of investment to encourage production.
B. reducing liquidity.
C. providing indicators of economic health.
D. limiting information available to market participants.
68. In the lean approach to accounting, inventory is treated as a(n)
A. revenue.
B. liability.
C. asset.
D. equity.
69. The Kramer Pharmaceutical Company lists the possible side effects of its nighttime cold medicine on the
bottle's label and exterior packaging. By disclosing this information, the company is reducing risks associated
with
A. mechanical product defects.
B. product returns.
C. product recalls.
D. inadequate product warnings.

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM

11

70. One of the most important things you must do before you can inspire other people is
A. earn at least $45,000 a year.
B. graduate from college.
C. learn how to supervise others.
D. show that you can be trusted.
71. Amy helps her company control expenses by which of the following actions:
A. Using suggestion selling
B. Giving customers personalized service
C. Coming back from lunch and breaks on time
D. Bringing lunch from home instead of buying it
72. Cyrus uses a methodology of risk management in his organization that takes a top-down, company-wide
approach when preparing for possible hazards. This strategy is called __________ risk management.
A. traditional
B. ad hoc
C. medium
D. enterprise
73. What is the primary goal of an investment company?
A. To issue various types of mortgages to businesses
B. To locate outside sources of money for firms
C. To pool and invest funds based on the needs of investors
D. To collect financial contributions and invest them for employees
74. An American manufacturing company has always produced its products in the United States. But in recent
years, increased competition from foreign manufacturers has forced the company to move some of its
manufacturing operations overseas. The cost of labor is simply cheaper in other countries. This is an example
of the effects of __________ on business.
A. globalization
B. exchange of technology
C. domestic operations
D. knowledge transfer
75. For places such as work or school to function smoothly, everyone must
A. pay their taxes on time.
B. talk about their feelings.
C. have a sense of social responsibility.
D. agree on the same solutions.
76. How can a board of directors make sure all employees are involved in achieving corporate governance
objectives?
A. Train employees on governance objectives
B. Present objectives to upper management
C. Restrict access to governance goals
D. Leave roles and responsibilities undefined

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM

12

77. If you are writing a promotional email about your new hotel to an audience that has a lower income level than
your usual customers, you might change your message to emphasize
A. an emotional appeal.
B. long, detailed phrases.
C. luxury and comfort.
D. discounts and bargains.
78. What risk is being avoided when financial institutions use cloud computing?
A. Pure risk
B. Speculative risk
C. Loss of customers risk
D. Return on investment risk
79. Cocoa Bean Coffee Cafe posts the following statement on its website: "Cocoa Bean Coffee Cafe does not
share its customers' names, email addresses, and phone numbers with others without obtaining customers'
consent.” This is an example of a business exhibiting __________ behavior in relation to
A. cautious; product promotion.
B. ethical; information management.
C. judicious; production procedures.
D. questionable; marketing research.
80. Which of the following principles should businesses practice to achieve open and honest corporate governance
that builds stakeholder trust and holds leadership accountable:
A. Fairness
B. Empathy
C. Transparency
D. Viability
81. An organization trying to determine why actual net sales were below the forecasted sales for a specific time
period would probably evaluate any __________ variance.
A. fixed overhead spending
B. purchase price
C. selling price
D. material yield
82. Achievement-oriented people often want to
A. let others win.
B. keep things the same.
C. do things more efficiently.
D. be told what to do.
83. A statement of equity helps companies make decisions about how to
A. reinvest their retained earnings.
B. organize income statements.
C. control their production costs.
D. analyze financial trends.

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM

13

84. A project's quality-management plan includes strategies to ensure the quality of the deliverables as well as the
quality of
A. the project's purpose.
B. employee education.
C. the project itself.
D. organizational investors.
85. To prove that a contract was breached, you must verify that
A. no one is responsible.
B. you lost money.
C. the breach has already occurred.
D. more than two parties were involved.
86. One way to build professional relationships in the finance industry is to
A. encourage others to discuss their finances.
B. read about industry trends.
C. implement a referral system.
D. print new business cards for distribution.
87. What is typically an advantage of holding investments longer than a year?
A. Guaranteed dividends
B. Lower taxes
C. No need for a stockbroker
D. Vulnerability to market fluctuations
88. To enable capital to flow more freely across their national borders, many countries around the world have
A. encouraged foreign investors to demonstrate a home bias.
B. removed limits on foreigners' access to domestic financial markets.
C. moved from floating exchange rates to fixed exchange rates.
D. increased tariffs on imports and lowered taxes on international transactions.
89. Which of the following is an example of violating a coworker's privacy in the workplace:
A. Thomas changed the wording on Carrie's report with her approval.
B. Joe needed a pen, so he opened Ali's desk drawer to look for one while she was away.
C. Paige sent a personal email from her work computer to her friend Alan.
D. Ruby saw that her coworkers were having a serious discussion, so she walked away.
90. Which of the following situations would cause prices to rise:
A. A newspaper article describes poor service provided by a hotel.
B. Insects destroy a large cotton crop.
C. The corn crop is unusually large one summer.
D. Animal rights activists march in front of a fur store.

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM

91. “Big Q” focuses on
A. designing and developing products.
B. improving factory conditions.
C. conforming to specifications.
D. exceeding customer expectations.
92. A shareholder's role in governance structures includes
A. handling everyday business operations.
B. reporting the business's success and progress.
C. electing members to the board of directors.
D. carrying out daily tasks aligned with a company's mission.
93. The largest, most liquid financial market in the world is the __________ market.
A. commodity
B. foreign exchange
C. equity
D. debt
94. The average household spends 10% of its income on food, 27% on housing, 13% on transportation, 7% on
health care, 3% on clothing, 2% on education, and 38% on miscellaneous other expenses. Which of the
following graphic aids would be most appropriate for depicting this information:
A. Line chart
B. Word cloud
C. Pie chart
D. Bar graph
95. Which of the following are types of lending investments:
A. Savings accounts, collectibles, and stocks
B. Certificates of deposit, stocks, and real estate
C. Bonds, certificates of deposit, and collectibles
D. Money market accounts, certificates of deposit, and bonds
96. Madison is in charge of purchasing the raw materials and components necessary for her company to
manufacture computers. Madison is buying for
A. wholesale.
B. resale.
C. business use.
D. transformation.
97. A financial advisor should try to
A. demonstrate wealth in an overt, flashy way.
B. hide gaps in knowledge with confidence.
C. talk about products more than they listen.
D. explain the reasoning for any changes.

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

14

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM

98. Which of the following is a benefit of networking for a finance professional:
A. Improving marketing skills
B. Gaining insider information about other companies
C. Prevention of job loss
D. Growth in technical knowledge
99. Which of the following is an impact of introducing compliance technology into a business:
A. It identifies patterns and trends in a company.
B. It increases the likelihood of a data breach.
C. It replaces living specialists from a company.
D. It reduces a company's overall efficiency.
100. Which of the following characteristics best describes the practice of stewardship in financial-information
management:
A. Providing information to shareholders based on usefulness
B. Focus on potential future cash flows
C. Emphasis on accountability for resources
D. A company culture of mentorship

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

15

KEY
Test Number 1293

Finance Cluster Exam
ACT – Accounting Applications Series Event
BFS – Business Finance Series Event
FCE – Financial Consulting Event
FTDM – Financial Services Team Decision Making Event

CAUTION: Posting these materials on a website is a copyright violation.
This comprehensive exam was developed by MBA Research exclusively for DECA’s
2023-2024 Competitive Events Program. Items have been randomly selected from the MBA
Research Test-Item Bank and represent a variety of instructional areas. Performance indicators
for this exam are at the prerequisite, career-sustaining, and specialist levels. A descriptive test
key, including question sources and answer rationale, has been provided to the DECA
chartered association advisor.

Copyright © 2024 by Marketing & Business Administration Research and
Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio (dba MBA Research). Each individual test item contained
herein is the exclusive property of MBA Research. Items are licensed to DECA only for use as
configured within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose other than as
specifically authorized is prohibited. Possession of this exam, without written authorization,
under any other circumstances is a copyright violation. Posting to inter- or intranet sites is
specifically forbidden unless written permission is obtained prior to posting. Report violations to
DECA at 703.860.5000 and MBA Research at 800.448.0398. Permission for reprinting is
granted to DECA chartered associations authorized by DECA Inc.
DECA Inc. will impose sanctions on chapters and chartered associations for violations of this
policy up to and including disqualification of competitors and chapters from further participation.

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

1

1. A
Heat and lighting costs. Heat and lighting costs are indirect costs that are usually allocated to the production of
individual products to determine a more accurate product cost. The cost of labor and raw product materials are
considered direct costs associated with the cost object (the manufactured product). Administrative expenses
are not generally assigned to individual products, because they occur regardless of whether anything is
produced.
SOURCE: FI:663 Discuss the nature of cost allocation
SOURCE: Averkamp, H. (2023). How can a manufacturer determine the precise cost of its products? Retrieved
September 29, 2023, from https://www.accountingcoach.com/blog/how-can-a-manufacturerdetermine-the-precise-cost-of-its-products
2. D
Affirmations. Affirmations are positive statements about something you want to accept, incorporate, or develop.
Roles are parts or positions that one plays in life in response to the various demands of society (e.g., student,
parent). Images are mental pictures. Visualization is the practice of imagining yourself in possession of a
present or desired strength.
SOURCE: EI:016 Explain the concept of self-esteem
SOURCE: Mind Tools. (2023). Using affirmations. Retrieved September 28, 2023, from
https://www.mindtools.com/air49f4/using-affirmations
3. C
The board of directors. The board of directors has the responsibility of protecting shareholders' investments,
developing the company's mission and structure, and governing all the activities of the organization. These
responsibilities do not belong to company employees, to upper level managers, or even to company lawyers.
SOURCE: PD:214 Describe the components of a well-governed company (e.g., board of directors, reporting,
transparency, internal and external audit functions)
SOURCE: McNamara, C. (2023, July 18). Board of directors: Roles and responsibilities overview. Retrieved
September 29, 2023, from https://management.org/boards/responsibilities.htm
4. A
Report financial transactions. Financial-information management is the ongoing process of gathering,
maintaining, and storing financial data. Businesses use financial data to develop reports that aid the business
decision-making process and meet compliance requirements. An important aspect of financial-information
management is maintaining data about financial transactions such as accounts receivable (e.g., customer sales
transactions) and accounts payable (monetary outflows). The business's buyers negotiate contracts with
vendors. Buyers may or may not use financial information as leverage during the negotiation process with
vendors. The product/service management function of the business focuses on new product development. The
selling function of the business implements sales policies.
SOURCE: FM:002 Explain the nature and scope of the financial-information management function
SOURCE: Gartenstein, D. (2018, April 5). Why is financial management so important in business? Retrieved
September 29, 2023, from https://bizfluent.com/why-is-financial-management-so-important-inbusiness.html

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

2

5. B
The need for ongoing education as a worker. Returning to school to learn new skills can help employees excel
at their current jobs—and even position them for promotions in the future. Tanya understands the importance of
learning new skills for her professional career. There is not enough information provided to determine if she
believes that younger employees are less qualified than her, that she needs to work longer hours, or that her
employer will fire her if she doesn't learn to code.
SOURCE: PD:033 Explain the need for ongoing education as a worker
SOURCE: Sanchez, A. (2023, May 11). Employers benefit from continuing ed for employees. Retrieved
September 28, 2023, from https://continuingstudies.wisc.edu/blog/employers-benefit-fromcontinuing-ed-for-employees
6. B
A promotion. Employees who regularly demonstrate a customer service mindset often enjoy career
advancement, such as promotions and raises, as a result. Promotions are one way for businesses to
acknowledge and reward employees’ customer service skills. An expense account is a sum of money given to
employees who need it for travel, entertaining clients, etc. Customers, rather than businesses, often thank or
compliment employees who have been especially helpful.
SOURCE: CR:004 Demonstrate a customer service mindset
SOURCE: LAP-CR-004—Set Your Mind to It (Customer Service Mindset)
7. B
Satisfaction. Involving employees in business decisions often leads to increased job satisfaction and investment
in the company, as employees see that their ideas are heard and valued. While not all decisions require
employee consultation, it is often to the benefit of the company that it take advantage of employee involvement.
It is less likely or not likely at all that employee involvement would lead to employee burnout, sales, or
relocation.
SOURCE: PD:301 Ascertain employee's role in achieving governance objectives
SOURCE: Heathfield, S.M. (2019, July 26). What does employee involvement actually look like? Retrieved
September 29, 2023, from https://www.liveabout.com/employee-involvement-1918100
8. B
$14.05. To determine how much income from interest Heidi will earn in five years, first multiply the original
deposit by the interest rate ($562 X 0.5% [or .005] = $2.81). Then, multiply the interest by the number of years
to determine the total interest Heidi will earn after five years ($2.81 X 5 = $14.05). Heidi will earn $14.05 in
income from interest after five years.
SOURCE: FI:238 Calculate the time value of money
SOURCE: Furey, E. (2022, May 15). Simple interest calculator A = P(1 + rt). Retrieved September 28, 2023,
from https://www.calculatorsoup.com/calculators/financial/simple-interest-plus-principalcalculator.php
9. D
Access a financial website. Pricing on the stock exchange fluctuates constantly, so accessing a financial
website such as Bloomberg can give Kayla the most current information. A newspaper is typically printed on a
daily basis, so some of the information in the stock table is likely to be outdated by the time Kayla reads it. The
"About Us" section of a business's website discusses the purpose of the business. The annual report is an
overview of the business's performance for the previous year. Neither the "About Us" section of a business's
website nor a business's annual report will contain the most current pricing for different stocks.
SOURCE: FI:275 Interpret securities table
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2022, February 6). How to read a stock ticker. Retrieved September 29, 2023, from
https://www.investopedia.com/articles/01/070401.asp
Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

3

10. B
Economic. Fluctuations or "ups and downs" in the economy such as shifts in employment levels are economic
changes. Shifts in the values, tastes, habits, and compositions of society are social changes. Technological
changes refer to developments, breakthroughs, and other changes in the scientific applications to business
objectives. Changes concerning our bodies, minds, and lifestyles are known as personal changes.
SOURCE: EI:026 Adjust to change
SOURCE: Daisyme, P. (2020, December 16). How to adapt in a rapidly changing economy. Retrieved
September 28, 2023, from https://www.entrepreneur.com/growing-a-business/how-to-adapt-in-arapidly-changing-economy/361129
11. D
Operational. An operational budget is a forecast and analysis of projected income and expenses over the
course of a specific time period. It includes revenue and expenses such as materials, inventory, marketing, and
more. If Karen is looking for ways to cut expenses, the operational budget provides detailed information that
could assist her in this decision-making process. The financial budget includes capital expenditures, the cash
budget, the budgeted balance sheet, and the budgeted statement of cash flows. The financial budget shows
how operations and planned capital affect cash. The cash budget is part of the financial budget and forecasts
how much cash the organization has and how much it needs. These two budgets do not provide the details
about various expenses that the operational budget includes, so they would not be helpful to Karen in this
situation. A static budget is a budget that is based on the level of output planned at the start of the budget
period. It does not change, regardless of other factors. Since Karen needs to modify her budget by cutting
expenses, she should not necessarily consult a static budget.
SOURCE: FM:013 Demonstrate budgeting applications
SOURCE: Indeed. (2022, June 24). Guide to understanding operational and capital budgets. Retrieved
September 29, 2023, from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/operationalbudget-vs-capital-budget
12. B
Equal to one another. The ultimate goal of a personal budget is to have income and expenses that are equal to
one another—in other words, to have all of your income accounted for and budgeted toward a specific expense
or savings objective. If your income column shows a number that is smaller than the number in the expense
column, then you will not have enough money to pay for all your expenses. If your expenses are lower than
your income, however, you will have excess money that could be budgeted more wisely. Your income and
expenses may vary each month—and each person's budget will be unique. There is no "correct" number for
income and expenses.
SOURCE: FI:066 Develop personal budget
SOURCE: Lake, R. (2022, October 19). Budgets: Everything you need to know. Retrieved September 28, 2023,
from https://www.thebalancemoney.com/how-to-make-a-budget-1289587
13. C
Customer life. The basic steps of the customer life cycle involve attracting current customers, acquiring new
customers, serving the customers, and retaining the customers. The accounting cycle begins when a sale is
made and ends when the books are closed in accounting. Business cycles are the rise and fall in economic
activity that businesses experience. Customer complaint cycle is a fictitious term.
SOURCE: CR:024 Use Customer Relationship Management (CRM) technology
SOURCE: CRMsolution.com. (n.d.). CRM software strategy: Sample CRM objectives. Retrieved September 28,
2023, from http://www.crmsolution.com/crm-strategy.html

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

4

14. C
Self-understanding. You must be able to comprehend your own thoughts, attitudes, and actions before you can
identify similar qualities in others and empathize with them. The alternatives would not necessarily limit selfunderstanding or perception of others.
SOURCE: EI:030 Show empathy for others
SOURCE: LAP-EI-030—Have a Heart (Showing Empathy for Others)
15. C
By comparing employee phone numbers and addresses to vendor information for payables. A conflict of interest
is a situation in which it is impossible to be truly impartial. It would prevent someone from performing their duties
and responsibilities objectively. To spot probable conflicts of interest, businesses can use their financial analysis
applications to cross check employee data with those of vendors. The other examples can be used to analyze
financial data for other purposes.
SOURCE: FM:014 Demonstrate financial analysis applications
SOURCE: Ellison, J. (2023). Conflicts of interest. Retrieved September 29, 2023, from
https://www.audimation.com/conflicts-of-interest
16. D
Debt ratios. Offering credit involves allowing the buyer to purchase now and pay later. Offering credit is a risk to
businesses because customers may fall behind in making and/or default on their payments. Therefore,
businesses collect and analyze a variety of financial information about their customers before extending credit.
The debt ratio is a tool that calculates a customer's assets in relation to the customer's level of debt as a
percentage. If a customer's debt is low in relation to their assets (primarily income), the customer is more likely
to have money to make payments, making them a good candidate for credit. Stock purchases, capital gains,
and technical assets are not factors that typically influence a business's decision to extend credit to a customer.
SOURCE: FM:009 Describe techniques used to analyze customer financial information
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2023, July 7). What is the debt ratio? Retrieved September 29, 2023,
from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/d/debtratio.asp
17. C
A business is planning to sell out to another company. When businesses merge or sell out to other companies,
they need to provide records to prove their value to the other companies. Although businesses might retain
documentation of employee anniversaries, press releases, and training plans, these records have less
significance than records needed to provide proof of a business's income, expenses, and capital investments.
SOURCE: NF:081 Store information for future use
SOURCE: GovOS. (2023). What is records retention? Retrieved September 28, 2023,
from https://govos.com/blog/what-is-records-retention
18. B
Installment loan. Under this plan, the customer is usually required to make a down payment and a series of
continuing payments for a specified period of time. With an open account, a customer is billed each month for
all purchases made during the preceding month. The option account gives the customer the choice, or option,
of paying the entire amount due without a finance charge or paying a minimum amount due (or more) with a
finance charge added. With a revolving credit account, the customer pays a small amount each month, usually
with a service charge.
SOURCE: FI:002 Explain the purposes and importance of credit
SOURCE: Srivastav, A.K. (2023). Types of credit. Retrieved September 28, 2023, from
https://www.wallstreetmojo.com/types-of-credit

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

5

19. B
Its investments typically involve less risk. The debt market is where participants can buy or sell loans.
Compared with the equity market, the debt market is known for having lower risk and lower reward. The equity
market is known for having higher risk and reward and being unstable as a result of vulnerability to political,
social, and economic events. It is also referred to as the stock market. Dividends are payments made by
companies to their shareholders, so they are potential benefits of the equity market, not the debt market.
SOURCE: FI:337 Explain types of financial markets (e.g., money market, capital market, insurance market,
commodities markets, etc.)
SOURCE: Maverick, J.B. (2021, December 13). Debt market vs. equity market: What's the difference?
Retrieved September 29, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/071415/what-aredifferences-between-debt-and-equity-markets.asp
20. B
Financial statements. A company's financial statements include a wealth of investing information that can help
Nick analyze the financial health of that company. While economic trends reports, real-time stock quotes, and
industry news reports are also sources of investment information, they are not the best sources of information
related to the financial health of a particular company.
SOURCE: FI:274 Describe sources of securities information
SOURCE: Maverick, J.B. (2022, May 24). Why do shareholders need financial statements? Retrieved
September 29, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/032615/why-do-shareholdersneed-financial-statements.asp
21. B
By comparing the income statement's net profit figures for those two years. For income statements to be useful,
businesses must be able to compare their income statements over time or across companies. That way, they
can determine whether a business's profitability is increasing or decreasing. Comparing operating expenses
across the two years does not provide a complete picture to determine profitability. This information lets
businesses determine where they might be having trouble with certain expenses. Assets minus liabilities should
equal the owner's equity. This information is found on the balance sheet and does not provide profitability
information. Hopefully, owner's equity will remain positive. If not, the business has more liabilities than assets.
However, a person is not able to determine profitability from this information.
SOURCE: FI:094 Describe the nature of income statements
SOURCE: LAP-FI-094—Watch Your Bottom Line (Income Statements)
22. C
Rights to privacy. More and more businesses are using information-management systems to collect personal
information about customers. What businesses do with this information is important because they risk violating
their customers' rights to privacy. Businesses need to protect their customers' rights to privacy because
customers who feel that businesses have misused their private information may stop buying from those
businesses or go so far as to take legal action. Customers' access to credit, level of service, or need for
information are not affected by a business's use of an information-management system.
SOURCE: NF:013 Describe current business trends
SOURCE: Federal Trade Commission. (n.d.). Protecting consumer privacy and security. Retrieved October 2,
2023, from https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/topics/protecting-consumer-privacy-security

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

6

23. C
The information is typically carefully checked for accuracy. Most printed publications go through several rounds
of editing and review to ensure they are accurate. Authors affiliated with professional organizations could have
bias toward a special interest group, which can result in biased information. Published information can become
quickly outdated. Publishers do sometimes support special interest groups, but they clearly indicate those
associations so a researcher can determine if they should trust the information.
SOURCE: NF:079 Evaluate quality and source of information
SOURCE: Purdue Online Writing Lab. (2022). Evaluating sources: Introduction. Retrieved on September 28,
2023,
from https://owl.purdue.edu/owl/research_and_citation/conducting_research/evaluating_sources_of_
information/index.html
24. A
Data mining. Data mining involves analyzing the information in large databases to discover patterns or
relationships and generate new information. Social networking is the use of websites to interact with other users
with similar interests. Data collection is simply the process of collecting facts and figures and does not involve
analysis. Customer service refers to activities that increase customer satisfaction.
SOURCE: CR:024 Use Customer Relationship Management (CRM) technology
SOURCE: Twin, A. (2023, April 15). What is data mining? How it works, benefits, techniques, and examples.
Retrieved September 28, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/d/datamining.asp
25. A
Flow-through shares. Flow-through shares are common tax shelters used by taxpayers to reduce their tax
burdens. Corporations that issue flow-through shares are typically part of the mining industry. These companies
agree to use whatever funds they receive from investors for exploration purposes—in other words, to locate
new sources of oil, gold, copper, etc. Rather than writing off these funds from their corporate taxes, the
companies pass the tax deductions on to their investors, who can write off their entire investments against their
taxes. Offshore companies, which are also commonly used as tax shelters, are businesses that are
incorporated outside the country. Government bonds are interest-bearing certificates issued by the government,
which promises to pay bond owners a certain sum at a specified time. Derivatives are financial instruments
whose value depends upon the value of other financial instruments (e.g., currencies, securities, commodities) or
a market index.
SOURCE: BL:134 Discuss the effect of tax laws and regulations on financial transactions
SOURCE: Prospectors & Developers Association of Canada. (2023). Flow-through shares & the mineral
exploration tax credit explained. Retrieved September 28, 2023, from https://www.pdac.ca/programsand-advocacy/access-to-capital/flow-through-shares
26. D
Social responsibility. In a free enterprise system, anyone and everyone is free to start a business and pursue its
success. However, along with this privilege comes social responsibility. Social responsibility is the duty of
business to contribute to the well-being of society. Ethical principles are standards that govern behavior. Being
transparent means being truthful when communicating. Stakeholders are people or businesses who are
affected by a company's success or failure.
SOURCE: EC:106 Explain the nature of business ethics
SOURCE: LAP-EC-106—On the Up and Up (Business Ethics)

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

7

27. A
Vendor selection. Selecting a vendor requires several important steps, including forming a team that will
evaluate each vendor; defining the product, service, or material that is needed from a vendor; and determining
the business's requirements for a vendor contract. These are all steps of vendor selection, not financial
analysis, marketing research, or customer targeting.
SOURCE: OP:161 Select vendors
SOURCE: Bucki, J. (2019, May 2). How to select the right vendor for your business. Retrieved September 28,
2023, from https://www.liveabout.com/the-successful-vendor-selection-process-2533820
28. C
Staying organized. When Wayne keeps his work area neat, he is staying organized. This helps him stay on task
and maintain focus. This can help his company achieve many of its goals. In this particular instance, Wayne is
not illustrating showing up on time, meeting deadlines, or observing safety standards.
SOURCE: MK:015 Discuss actions employees can take to achieve the company's desired results
SOURCE: LAP-MK-015—Act Now! (Employee Actions and Company Goals)
29. B
Eliminate waste. Lean methodology focuses on eliminating waste, taking time out of processes, and creating a
better flow to meet demand. Lean emphasizes increasing speed to reduce the amount of time between
activities, events, or cycles, not slowing down processes. Reducing variation and lessening defects are some of
the primary focuses of Six Sigma methodology. Where Lean aims to improve speed, Six Sigma looks to reduce
the number of errors in a process and improve quality.
SOURCE: FM:016 Discuss non-traditional uses for financial information (e.g., lean, sustainability reporting,
activity-based costing [ABC], six sigma)
SOURCE: GreyCampus. (n.d.). Difference between Lean and Six Sigma. Retrieved September 29, 2023,
from https://www.greycampus.com/opencampus/lean-six-sigma-green-belt/difference-between-leanand-six-sigma
30. B
Audits and reconciliation of petty cash accounts. Internal controls are procedural measures an organization
adopts to ensure the integrity of financial and accounting information, promote accountability, and prevent fraud.
Internal controls are broadly divided into preventive and detective activities. Detective controls are intended to
uncover the existence of errors, inaccuracies, or fraud that has already occurred. Examples of detective internal
controls include audits, reconciliation of petty cash accounts, monthly reconciliation of bank accounts, and
review and verification of refunds. Preventative controls are designed to prevent errors, inaccuracies, or fraud
before it occurs. Examples of preventative controls include ordering and accepting inventory, making
purchases, authorizing invoices, verifying expenses, approving payments, authorizing returns, and issuing
refunds.
SOURCE: BL:148 Discuss the nature and scope of compliance in the finance industry
SOURCE: Bradford, C. (n.d.). What are internal controls & their purpose? Retrieved September 28, 2023, from
https://smallbusiness.chron.com/internal-controls-purpose-55904.html

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

8

31. A
Accounts payable. Accounts payable are the monies owed by the business to others. Accounts-payable
applications help businesses organize bills and allocate funds to pay bills when they are due. Budgeting tools
and sales applications can help a business analyze its sales revenue. Dividends are payments made to
stockholders for their investments. A credit rating is the score assigned to a borrower based on previous loans.
SOURCE: FM:014 Demonstrate financial analysis applications
SOURCE: Tuovila, A. (2022, July 25). Understanding accounts payable (AP) with examples and how to record
AP. Retrieved September 29, 2023,
from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/a/accountspayable.asp
32. B
Issuing notes, bonds, and other obligations. Finance companies, also known as credit companies, are a type of
financial institution. Finance companies raise capital by issuing notes, bonds, and other obligations. They use
this capital to provide loans to businesses and consumers. Insurance companies raise capital by investing
funds from premiums and offering loans to clients. Deposit-taking institutions accept funds from savers and use
those funds to offer loans to borrowers. Investment institutions, not finance companies, establish mutual funds
and investment banks.
SOURCE: FI:336 Describe the role of financial institutions
SOURCE: Boyte-White, C. (2022, February 9). Top 2 ways corporations raise capital. Retrieved September 29,
2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/032515/what-are-different-ways-corporationscan-raise-capital.asp
33. B
A financial holding company. Because financial holding companies provide a wide variety of financial services
and related products, the Federal Reserve Board supervises their activities. The primary services that an
accounting firm provides include accounting, tax preparation, auditing, and bookkeeping services. Some
financial holding companies may offer accounting services. Commodities investors invest their funds in goods
(futures) such as grains, livestock, raw materials, etc. A central bank is often responsible for determining
interest rates, controlling the nation's money supply, and regulating the banking industry. The Federal Reserve
is an example of a central bank.
SOURCE: FI:573 Discuss the nature of convergence/consolidation in the finance industry
SOURCE: Hargrave, M. (2023, February 27). Financial holding company: Overview, history, FAQ. Retrieved
September 29, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/f/financial-holding-company-fhc.asp
34. C
Opportunity costs. Opportunity costs usually require the analysis of qualitative information such as a supplier's
reputation for quality or service that can make an impact on the business versus numerical data. A sunk cost is
a cost that has already been incurred and cannot be recovered. Direct costs and indirect costs are typically
numerical data such as price of materials, labor, and overhead.
SOURCE: FI:658 Describe types of costs used in managerial accounting (e.g., direct cost, indirect cost, sunk
cost, differential cost, etc.)
SOURCE: Fernando, J. (2023, March 17). Opportunity cost formula, calculation, and what it can tell you.
Retrieved September 29, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/o/opportunitycost.asp

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

9

35. A
Damaged reputation. The purpose of an ethics training program is to advise employees about the business's
expectations in relation to workplace behavior. When employees don't have a clear understanding of the
business's expectations, they put the business at risk. Employees who do not follow the business's ethics
guidelines may cross a legal line without knowing they have done so. If employees cross ethical lines, and
perhaps break the law, the business may obtain a poor reputation. When a business experiences a poor or
damaged reputation, customers may start buying from the business's competitors, which reduces the
business's sales and profits. Unethical behavior increases the risk of workplace conflict. If the business is
unable to pay its debts, the business's credit rating is likely to decrease.
SOURCE: RM:041 Explain the role of ethics in risk management
SOURCE: LAP-RM-041—Manage Risk the Right Way (Ethics in Risk Management)
36. B
Herd behavior among investors. Although financial globalization tends to increase investors' access to many
different financial markets, financial globalization also seems to increase the risks of speculative bubbles and
herd behavior among investors. Herd behavior involves individuals who act together as a group without any
planned direction. It is usually irrational and driven by emotions. In good times, investors hurry to join others in a
buying frenzy. But, in bad financial times, fearful investors join others in a rush to get out of risky markets. By
diversifying their funds in many different countries, investors are able to diversify their risk and reduce their
exposure to business cycle risks. To enable capital to flow more freely across their national borders, many
countries have lowered their taxes on international financial transactions.
SOURCE: FI:575 Explain the nature and scope of financial globalization
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2022, July 7). Herd instinct: Definition, stock market examples, & how to avoid. Retrieved
September 29, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/h/herdinstinct.asp
37. C
Exercise regularly. Most employees will experience a certain amount of stress at some time during their
careers. Recognizing stress and taking steps to reduce or relieve it are essential to an employee's well-being.
One way to relieve stress is to exercise on a regular basis. Exercise helps relieve tension, relax a person, and
provide a physical outlet for pent-up emotions, such as anger or frustration. Even moderate exercise helps a
person manage stress and stay healthy. Most employees are not able to vacation frequently. Ignoring the
problem often increases stress. Striving for perfection often creates stress.
SOURCE: EI:028 Explain the nature of stress management
SOURCE: SHRM. (2023). How can employers help to reduce stress in the workplace? Retrieved September
28, 2023, from https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/hr-qa/pages/reducingstress-in-the-workplace.aspx
38. A
Provides users with faster, better access to data from multiple sources. Financial-information management
software has a number of benefits. It provides users with faster, better access to data, even from multiple
sources. It also improves productivity by replacing tasks that used to be completed by hand with automated
activities. It lowers compliance costs, but it does so by increasing audit trails and economies of scale, not
eliminating them. Finally, it reduces risk and increases users' confidence in the confidentiality, safety, and
integrity of data.
SOURCE: FM:011 Describe the use of technology in the financial-information management function
SOURCE: LaMarco, N. (2019, February 13). What are the benefits of a financial management information
system? Retrieved September 29, 2023, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/benefits-financialmanagement-information-system-71943.html

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

10

39. A
Principal amount and interest rate. When a customer keeps their money in a financial institution (e.g., bank),
they earn interest on the amount (principal) that they put into their savings account. The interest is paid to the
customer's account by the financial institution. Over time, the customer earns money on the principal by
accumulating interest, which increases the future value of the savings account. To calculate the future value of
the savings account, it is necessary to know the principal amount, the interest rate, and the length of time that
the principal is in the account. Quarterly wages, late fees, annual income, and insurance rates are not elements
that will help a person calculate the future value of money in a savings account.
SOURCE: FI:062 Explain the time value of money
SOURCE: Heyford, S.C. (2022, May 23). Understanding the time value of money. Retrieved September 28,
2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/articles/03/082703.asp
40. A
Supporting; assessing. The board of directors is responsible for helping an organization reach its goals while
meeting stakeholder needs. This often includes hiring, supporting, and assessing the performance of the
organization's top executives. The board of directors does not usually shadow or audit the top executives. While
it's possible for members of a board of directors to encourage, promote, and make networking connections for
top executives, those are not necessarily responsibilities of the board.
SOURCE: PD:303 Describe the impact of governance processes on decision-making and management
functions
SOURCE: Chen, J. (2023, August 18). Board of directors: What it is, what its role is. Retrieved September 29,
2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/b/boardofdirectors.asp
41. C
Marginal. Business decision makers often compare marginal cost against marginal revenue to determine the
profitability of increased production. A sunk cost is a cost that cannot be recovered or changed, so it is typically
irrelevant to any future business activities. Fixed cost and average cost are irrelevant to increased-production
decisions because they are based on costs that occur regardless of production levels.
SOURCE: FI:659 Describe marginal analysis techniques and applications
SOURCE: Corporate Finance Institute. (2023). Marginal cost formula. Retrieved September 29, 2023,
from https://corporatefinanceinstitute.com/resources/accounting/marginal-cost-formula
42. B
Implement risk management strategies. Risk management is the planning, controlling, preventing, and limiting
of business losses and enhancing possibilities for gain. It involves preparing for risks including those that might
result in a lawsuit. If a business implements risk management strategies ahead of time, it will be less likely to
face a lawsuit for negligence. Limiting interactions with customers is not realistic for a business. Hiring lawyers
to find loopholes in regulations is not ethical and will not limit the chance that the company will face lawsuits.
Finally, purchasing captive insurance can assist a company when it does face lawsuits, but it does not limit the
chance of lawsuits occurring in the first place.
SOURCE: RM:043 Discuss legal considerations affecting risk management
SOURCE: Kaufman, G. (2015). Risk management: Avoiding a lawsuit. Retrieved September 29, 2023, from
http://convention.asbsd.org/wp-content/uploads/Risk-Management-Avoiding-a-Lawsuit.pdf

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

11

43. D
Online. People often write letters of application when responding to jobs listed online. The purpose of the letter
is to briefly explain the person's qualifications for the advertised job. The letter of application, or cover letter,
usually accompanies the person's resume. People usually do not find job leads in publicity brochures. People
who see "help wanted" signs in store windows generally apply in person rather than write letters of application.
Finally, a letter of application is less likely when the job is found through networking because the person has
already had the chance to explain their qualifications while networking.
SOURCE: PD:030 Write a letter of application
SOURCE: Isaacs, K. (2023). Should you always send a cover letter? Retrieved September 28, 2023, from
https://www.monster.com/career-advice/article/cover-letter-point-counterpoint
44. D
Career. Career goals are goals connected with work (e.g., added responsibility, a new job title, or a promotion).
An example of a personal goal might be to improve self-control in trying situations. To run two miles every day
is an example of a physical goal. To make new friends is an example of a social goal.
SOURCE: PD:018 Set personal goals
SOURCE: LAP-PD-918—Go for the Goal (Goal Setting)
45. A
It is used to detect patterns in a data set. Benford's law of anomalous numbers states that the leading digit (or
most commonly occurring digit) is likely to be small. This means that in a data set, numeral 1 will be the leading
digit 30.1% of the time, numeral 2 will be the leading digit 17.6% of the time, and each subsequent numeral (3
through 9) will decrease in frequency. Because of this, Benford's law can be used to detect patterns in naturally
occurring data sets. In addition, it is used to both catch anomalies and detect fraud. For example, accountants
often utilize Benford's law to spot anomalies that may indicate fraud by comparing leading digits of financial
transaction data to the Benford curve. Benford's law does not state that all digits in a data set occur equally.
SOURCE: NF:124 Demonstrate advanced database applications
SOURCE: Kessel, E. (2020, December 17). Benford's law: Potential applications for insider threat detection.
Retrieved September 29, 2023, from https://insights.sei.cmu.edu/blog/benfords-law-potentialapplications-insider-threat-detection
46. A
Nonprice. Nonprice competition involves factors other than price. Price competition focuses on the use of price
to attract scarce customer dollars. Pure competition exists when there are so many sellers and buyers of a
product that no one can influence the price. Direct competition occurs among businesses that offer similar types
of goods or services. It cannot be determined from this example whether the competition is direct or indirect.
SOURCE: EC:012 Explain the concept of competition
SOURCE: LAP-EC-912—Ready, Set, Compete! (Competition)
47. B
Market and competitive indicators. In addition to collecting, maintaining, and reporting data about financial
transactions, financial-information management is also responsible for maintaining internal operational data and
analyzing and reporting external market and competitive indicators. The financial-information management
function is not typically responsible for maintaining information about participative decision-making, dominant
buying motives, or recent third-party agreements.
SOURCE: FM:002 Explain the nature and scope of the financial-information management function
SOURCE: LaMarco, N. (2019, February 13). What are the benefits of a financial management information
system? Retrieved September 29, 2023, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/benefits-financialmanagement-information-system-71943.html

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

12

48. C
To keep business operations flowing smoothly. Businesses of all shapes, sizes, and industries implement
chains of command to keep their operations flowing smoothly and efficiently. A chain of command can help
improve productivity, efficiency, and communication within an organization. Businesses do not implement
chains of command to prevent employees from staging an uprising, to present a positive image to the public, or
to satisfy the requirements of labor unions.
SOURCE: PD:252 Follow chain of command
SOURCE: LAP-PD-252—Don't Cheat the Chain (Following Chain of Command)
49. A
Patent. Patents protect processes, methods, and inventions. In contrast, copyrights protect expressions of
ideas, such as literary, musical, and dramatic works. Trademarks protect words and symbols that represent a
product. Trade secrets are not registered with any government office and can refer to any items that are unique
and useful to a business, but are not protected under the other three categories, such as a secret recipe.
SOURCE: BL:051 Describe methods used to protect intellectual property
SOURCE: Entrepreneur. (2023). Intellectual property. Retrieved September 28, 2023, from
https://www.entrepreneur.com/encyclopedia/intellectual-property
50. D
Close. “Close,” which is sometimes listed as “Last,” represents the last price paid when trading ended for the
day. “Net change” compares the closing price with the previous day's closing price. A negative net change
indicates that the price is down when compared to the previous day's last price. A positive net change means
that the price is up. “Volume” (sometimes listed as “Sales”) tells you how many shares were traded that day.
“Yield” signifies the rate of return on the security, determined by dividing the dividend by the actual closing
price.
SOURCE: FI:275 Interpret securities table
SOURCE: Desjardins Online Brokerage. (n.d.). How to read a stock table/quote. Retrieved September 29,
2023, from https://www.disnat.com/en/learning/trading-basics/stock-basics/how-to-read-a-stocktablequote
51. A
Practice. Although it can be tempting to skip this step, practicing your presentation is the most important part of
preparation! You should rehearse your presentation from start to finish several times over a few days. This will
help you become comfortable with the material and sound more natural. While it's still important to design visual
aids, plan your appearance, and write note cards, none of those things will matter much if you aren't prepared
for the speech itself.
SOURCE: CO:025 Make oral presentations
SOURCE: LAP-CO-025—Well Said! (Making Oral Presentations)
52. A
Fiduciaries. Individual's financial advisors may serve as a fiduciary, and a fiduciary relationship will exist. The
fiduciary is responsible for caring for another person's assets and makes the decisions regarding an individual's
assets. An example of a fiduciary would be a trusted financial advisor such as an accountant, attorney, or
insurance agent. An economist is a person who studies how countries and individuals make economic
decisions. A bookkeeper is an individual who analyzes financial transactions, journalizes those transactions,
posts the journal entries to ledgers, and balances the books. Although Lucy's accountant may also be her
bookkeeper, her attorney and life-insurance agent are not likely to be bookkeepers.
SOURCE: BL:133 Discuss legal considerations in the finance industry
SOURCE: Cummings & Lockwood LLC. (2017). Choosing fiduciaries to handle your estate. Retrieved October
2, 2023, from https://www.cl-law.com/news-events/choosing-fiduciaries-to-handle-your-estate
Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

13

53. A
Fall. The Consumer Price Index measures the prices of consumer goods. In the United States, it is published
monthly by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. However, most experts conduct a “year-on-year” comparison to
better understand increases and decreases in the CPI. An increase in the CPI signals an increase in inflation. A
sharp increase in inflation causes interest rates and bond values to rise and stock prices to fall.
SOURCE: FI:574 Describe the relationship between economic conditions and financial markets
SOURCE: Bureau of Labor Statistics. (2023). Consumer price index. Retrieved September 29, 2023,
from https://www.bls.gov/cpi
54. D
Determining how much new hires would impact the budget. Managerial accountants can assist their managers
in making business decisions by providing data that can help them make their decisions. If Evan's manager
needs to make a decision regarding hiring, Evan can help by providing information about how the decision
would impact the budget. Evan's position as a managerial accountant would not necessarily make him qualified
to provide feedback on job candidates after their interviews. Summarizing overall financial performances would
not necessarily be helpful in the manager's decision-making process. Examining the profitability of various
products would also not necessarily help Evan's manager in his decision-making process.
SOURCE: FI:660 Explain the nature of managerial accounting
SOURCE: Jan, I. (2020, July 22). Managerial accounting. Retrieved September 29, 2023,
from https://xplaind.com/180841/managerial-accounting
55. A
Accumulating data on costs and profits. Managerial accountants provide valuable assistance and information to
management and conduct many types of financial analyses. Accumulating data on costs and profits is one of
many ways they do this, and they explain the findings of their analyses to management so that management
can make informed financial decisions. Managerial accountants typically do not hire or train employees.
Managerial accountants do not have the power to set competitive product or service prices. Rather, they can
provide information to help managers do so. Managerial accountants' work is not typically released to the
public, because managerial accountants are strictly internal accountants.
SOURCE: FI:660 Explain the nature of managerial accounting
SOURCE: Cerulli, P. (n.d.). Certified management accountant (CMA) career guide. Retrieved September 29,
2023, from https://www.allbusinessschools.com/specialties/how-to-become-a-cma
56. D
Certified financial planner. Certified financial planners are financial advisors who work at small firms and help
guide clients in reaching their financial goals. Compared to other financial industry jobs, such as investment
banking or trading, the competition is less intense and there is more flexibility in hours and location. Certified
financial planners also must pursue their own clients and sometimes manage all aspects of the business. Blake
would be well-suited for this position because of his values, some of which might conflict with the stressful hours
and inflexibility that are associated with being an underwriter, hedge fund trader, or portfolio manager.
SOURCE: PD:152 Discuss employment opportunities in the finance industry
SOURCE: Folger, J. (2022, December 12). Is finance a good career path? Retrieved September 29, 2023, from
https://www.investopedia.com/articles/financial-careers/08/financial-career-optionsprofessionals.asp

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

14

57. B
Income statement. Some investors believe the income statement is the most important document to review
because it shows the company's “bottom line,” a term that refers to net income. The income statement shows a
company's profitability over a specific period of time. You read an income statement from top to bottom. The top
line shows the revenues. Each line below the first line deducts expenses, until you get to the bottom line that
shows the net income. A cash flow statement tracks the money that comes into and flows back out of a
company. A balance sheet gives a summary of a company's financial health at a specific point in time. A
statement of retained earnings indicates the amount of profit that is being retained in the business, as well as
the dividends paid by the company during a specific period of time.
SOURCE: FI:274 Describe sources of securities information
SOURCE: Chen, J. (2023, March 27). Income statement: How to read and use it. Retrieved September 29,
2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/i/incomestatement.asp
58. A
Past data; project future results. Budgets are estimates of income and expenses for a specific period of time. In
cost accounting, budgets are projections. They are based on past data, but they look forward into the future.
Cost accounting budgets are based on internal and external information, and they do not necessarily support
external clients. Cost accounting budgets are based on more than marketing and sales, and they focus on more
than operations. Cost accounting budgets should not be based on guesswork. Rather, they should be based on
past data and insights into the future.
SOURCE: FI:662 Discuss the nature of cost accounting budgets
SOURCE: Boyd, K. (2016, March 26). Cost accounting: Budgeting basics. Retrieved September 29, 2023,
from https://www.dummies.com/article/business-careers-money/business/accounting/generalaccounting/cost-accounting-budgeting-basics-166823
59. A
Establishing rewards for ethical behavior. Ethics can help mitigate risks, whereas unethical behavior brings
more risk. One way to reduce risks is by establishing rewards for ethical behavior. These will encourage a
culture of ethics. All employees should be trained on ethics, not just top-level executives. Companies should
make it easy and comfortable to report unethical conduct, rather than making it difficult to do so. Finally, clear,
easy-to-understand ethical guidelines should be implemented.
SOURCE: RM:041 Explain the role of ethics in risk management
SOURCE: LAP-RM-041—Manage Risk the Right Way (Ethics in Risk Management)
60. A
A competitive advantage. Customer trust can provide a business with a competitive advantage. Studies have
shown that businesses with high levels of customer trust are in a favorable position over their competitors in
terms of sales and profit. Customer trust will not necessarily provide a business with discounts on raw materials,
more effective advertising campaigns, or better credit terms.
SOURCE: CR:017 Explain the role of ethics in customer relationship management
SOURCE: LAP-CR-017—Trust Is a Must (Ethics in Customer Relationship Management)

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

15

61. D
Consumer demand. Consumer demand is the quantity of a good or service that buyers are ready to buy at a
given price at a particular time. Producers will continue to provide a product in direct proportion to the demand
for it, as long as it is profitable for them to do so. Producers must carefully watch for fluctuations in consumer
demand to produce what is wanted by consumers—not necessarily what is demanded by producers. Product
utility, or usefulness, and the value of products to consumers are factors that determine demand. Not all
products are produced by members of labor unions.
SOURCE: EC:005 Explain the principles of supply and demand
SOURCE: LAP-EC-011—It's the Law (Supply and Demand)
62. A
Clashes in corporate culture. When two businesses merge, it is crucial to think about the differences in
company culture. Employees are often the essence of a company. If two diverse companies with different
philosophies, processes, and experiences merge without proper consideration of and response to these
differences, then the consolidation might fail. Eliminating redundancy, diversifying goods and services, and
growing market share are all potential benefits of business consolidation, not risks.
SOURCE: FI:573 Discuss the nature of convergence/consolidation in the finance industry
SOURCE: Taylor, J. (n.d.) Why do businesses consolidate? Retrieved September 29, 2023,
from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/businesses-consolidate-5114.html
63. C
Loss reduction. Loss reduction is a form of risk control. Risk control methods are used to reduce or minimize
loss. Loss reduction lessens the impact of a loss after it occurs. For instance, although the automatic sprinklers
won't prevent a fire from starting, they will lessen the impact that the fire has on the company's buildings.
Companies utilize loss avoidance when they choose not to take part in risky activity. Loss prevention focuses
on stopping certain losses from occurring. Companies transfer risk by purchasing insurance and entering into
contracts that transfer the risk to others.
SOURCE: RM:058 Discuss the nature of risk control (i.e., internal and external)
SOURCE: Insuranceopedia. (2023, June 9). Loss reduction. Retrieved September 29, 2023,
from https://www.insuranceopedia.com/definition/2795/loss-reduction
64. C
More ethical. Governance objectives are often based on integrity and ethical principles. Therefore, if a company
has strong governance practices, it is likely to be ethical in its investment decisions. Good governance should
not make investment decisions subject to the influence of individuals. Rather, it should remove interference
from individuals by giving the board independence to make decisions free of influence. Good governance does
not necessarily make investment decisions less regulated; in fact, it gives the board of directors the power to
enact financial controls and monitor reporting. Finally, governance makes a company's investment decisions
less vulnerable to risk because the governance objectives and policies should preemptively lessen the potential
for risks.
SOURCE: PD:303 Describe the impact of governance processes on decision-making and management
functions
SOURCE: Cole-Ingait, P. (n.d.). The impact of corporate governance practices on the investment decisions of
companies. Retrieved September 29, 2023, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/impact-corporategovernance-practices-investment-decisions-companies-79389.html

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

16

65. B
Lack of coordination. One issue that financial institutions have when dealing with compliance is lack of
coordination between different departments that manage risk and compliance separately. It is important to
integrate compliance throughout the organization and work together to have a unified, strategic approach. Too
much emphasis on risk management is not a problem that institutions experience when dealing with
compliance. In fact, risk management is an important part of compliance. Long-term thinking and the growing
importance of technology are not necessarily problems related to compliance.
SOURCE: BL:148 Discuss the nature and scope of compliance in the finance industry
SOURCE: Metric Stream. (2023). Integrated risk and compliance management for banks and financial services
organizations: Benefits of a holistic approach. Retrieved September 28, 2023, from
https://www.metricstream.com/whitepapers/financial-services.htm
66. D
Email communications are more difficult to secure. Email messages can be intercepted by unscrupulous people
in a number of different ways, both physically (if either the sending or receiving device is stolen or lacking
effective security features) and digitally (such as through hacking). Paper records, on the other hand, can be
more easily protected using locked, fireproof cabinets and other physical storage. Poor spelling, slang, and
inappropriate remarks can occur in any form of communication or documentation and should be avoided. Any
business communication can contain confidential information, but the inability to effectively secure email puts
any private information contained in email messages at risk.
SOURCE: CO:202 Explain how digital communications (e.g., email, text messages, chats) exposes business to
risk
SOURCE: Sutherland, R. (2021, March 19). Why you should choose a secure email provider for your business
(and why you might not). Retrieved September 28, 2023, from https://www.techradar.com/news/whychoose-secure-email-provider
67. A
Directing the flow of investment to encourage production. Financial markets help promote long-term economic
growth by directing the flow of money efficiently into production, which increases economic growth. Financial
markets do not reduce liquidity; rather, they increase it. Financial markets provide indicators of economic health,
but this does not necessarily relate to long-term economic development. Financial markets also do not limit the
information available to market participants; rather, they make information easier to access.
SOURCE: FI:574 Describe the relationship between economic conditions and financial markets
SOURCE: Gorg, H., Krieger-Boden, C., & Nunnenkamp, P. (2016, August 23). Merits of financial development
for developing countries. Retrieved September 29, 2023, from https://cepr.org/voxeu/columns/meritsfinancial-market-development-developing-countries
68. B
Liability. Unlike traditional accounting, in which inventory is considered an asset, lean accounting treats
inventory as a liability because having an inventory requires labor, storage, and other expenses. Inventory is
viewed as an asset in traditional accounting methods because it is a value owned and not owed. Inventory
cannot be considered a revenue until it is sold and ceases to be inventory. Equity refers to the amount of value
that a shareholder has invested in a business.
SOURCE: FM:016 Discuss non-traditional uses for financial information (e.g., lean, sustainability reporting,
activity-based costing [ABC], six sigma)
SOURCE: Antony, D. (n.d.). Benefits of lean accounting in a lean manufacturing company. Retrieved
September 29, 2023, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/benefits-lean-accounting-leanmanufacturing-company-4924.html

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

17

69. D
Inadequate product warnings. Though specifications vary by product type, businesses must provide adequate
information about their products. For example, pharmaceutical companies must advise consumers about a
medication's dosage, ingredients, side effects, and possible negative interactions with food, other medications,
alcohol, etc. Businesses that do not appropriately label their products increase their risks of lawsuits in relation
to inadequate product warnings. Medications are not mechanical in nature. Product recalls occur when quality
issues are detected after the products are released for sale. When this occurs, businesses take steps to retrieve
those goods to reduce the consumers' exposure to safety risks. A product return is the process by which buyers
return defective or unwanted goods to the seller.
SOURCE: RM:043 Discuss legal considerations affecting risk management
SOURCE: Shoop. (2023, August 4). The role of warning labels in product liability cases. Retrieved September
29, 2023, from https://www.losangelesproductliabilityfirm.com/blog/2023/august/the-role-of-warninglabels-in-product-liability70. D
Show that you can be trusted. Without the trust of your peers, coworkers, or friends, you can't inspire anybody.
People simply aren't inspired by people they dislike or mistrust. Therefore, earning the trust of others is
essential for inspiring others. Graduating from college, earning at least $45,000 a year, and learning how to
supervise others are not essential for inspiring others.
SOURCE: EI:133 Inspire others
SOURCE: LAP-EI-133—A Force for Good (Inspiring Others)
71. C
Coming back from lunch and breaks on time. The company pays Amy and other employees to put in a full day
of work. It loses money when employees take extended lunches and breaks. Using suggestion selling and
giving customers personalized service contributes to increased sales. Bringing lunch helps Amy control her
personal expenses.
SOURCE: OP:025 Explain employee's role in expense control
SOURCE: LAP-OP-025—Buck Busters (Employee Role in Expense Control)
72. D
Enterprise. Enterprise risk management is a top-down business activity that involves planning, controlling,
preventing, and procedures used by management to limit company losses. This approach considers risk
management from the perspective of the entire, comprehensive organization rather than by distinct business
units, which is characteristic of traditional risk management. Ad hoc and medium risk management are fictitious
terms.
SOURCE: RM:062 Discuss the nature of enterprise risk management (ERM)
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2022, September 7). Enterprise risk management (ERM): What is it and how it works.
Retrieved September 29, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/e/enterprise-riskmanagement.asp

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

18

73. C
To pool and invest funds based on the needs of investors. The primary purpose of an investment company is to
pool funds from people and invest them in the types of securities (mutual funds) that are most likely to generate
the desired financial returns. Investment banks locate outside sources of money for firms. Banks and mortgage
companies issue mortgages. Pension funds involve pooling employees' contributions and investing the monies
for financial gain.
SOURCE: FI:336 Describe the role of financial institutions
SOURCE: U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. (n.d.). Investment company. Retrieved September 29,
2023, from https://www.investor.gov/introduction-investing/investing-basics/glossary/investmentcompany
74. A
Globalization. Globalization is the rapid and unimpeded flow of capital, labor, and ideas across national borders.
One of the major impacts of globalization on business is increased competition. As a result of globalization,
companies now operate in several different countries—and have access to more markets than ever before. This
increases competition among businesses in the same industry. This example demonstrates the effects of
globalization-related competition on business. The exchange of technology and the transfer of knowledge are
both by-products of globalization, not effects of globalization. Domestic operations refers to business that takes
place in a company's home country.
SOURCE: EC:109 Discuss the impact of globalization on business
SOURCE: National Geographic Society. (1996-2023). Effects of economic globalization. Retrieved September
28, 2023, from https://education.nationalgeographic.org/resource/effects-economic-globalization
75. C
Have a sense of social responsibility. For places such as work or school to function smoothly, everyone must
have a sense of social responsibility. Social responsibility means that people respect and honor each other's
rights and dignity. It is not necessary for everyone to pay taxes, to talk about their feelings, or to agree on the
same solutions for a workplace or school to function smoothly.
SOURCE: EI:021 Demonstrate responsible behavior
SOURCE: LAP-EI-021—Make the Honor Role (Acting Responsibly)
76. A
Train employees on governance objectives. One way that a board of directors can make sure employees are
involved and motivated to work toward corporate governance objectives is to train employees on company
goals. Training gives employees the skills and knowledge they need to achieve objectives. Presenting
objectives to upper management does not necessarily involve all employees in corporate governance; rather, it
only includes upper management. Restricting access to governance goals does not allow all employees to
understand corporate governance objectives. Finally, it is important to clearly define roles and responsibilities in
achieving corporate governance objectives, rather than leaving roles and responsibilities undefined.
SOURCE: PD:301 Ascertain employee's role in achieving governance objectives
SOURCE: Kinsey, A. (2020, July 13). How to align employees with company goals. Retrieved September 29,
2023, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/align-employees-company-goals-11667.html

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

19

77. D
Discounts and bargains. If the audience to whom you are writing has a lower income level than your usual
audience, you might achieve success by focusing on a cost-saving message rather than one that emphasizes
luxury or comfort. Using long, detailed sentences or an emotional appeal will not necessarily help you reach an
audience in a lower income bracket.
SOURCE: CO:203 Adapt written correspondence to targeted audiences
SOURCE: Ross, L. (2023). Intended audience - How to write for your target audience. Retrieved September 28,
2023, from https://www.growth-hackers.net/intended-audience-how-to-write-for-your-target-audience
78. D
Return on investment risk. Cloud computing keeps businesses from having to invest in computer hardware,
such as servers, and software, thereby avoiding return on investment risk. Instead, businesses pay a provider
only for the services that they use—much like paying an electric bill. The contract with the provider can be
ended at any time. Customers will probably receive better service since the business is not having down time
when its computers malfunction. Speculative risk is the chance of loss or gain. Pure risk exists when, if
something happens, it will result in a loss.
SOURCE: RM:042 Describe the use of technology in risk management
SOURCE: Coles, C. (2015, June 22). 11 advantages of cloud computing and how your business can benefit
from them. Retrieved September 29, 2023, from https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/blog/2015/06/22/11advantages-of-cloud-computing-and-how-your-business-can-benefit-from-them
79. B
Ethical; information management. Information management is the process of accessing, processing,
maintaining, evaluating, and disseminating the business's knowledge, facts, or data. The cafe is exhibiting
ethical, cautious, and judicious behavior by implementing policies to protect its customers' information.
Customers are more likely to trust the cafe with their personal information because the cafe states its privacy
policies on its website. The privacy statement does not relate to the cafe's product promotion, marketing
research, or production procedures.
SOURCE: NF:111 Explain the role of ethics in information management
SOURCE: Fletcher, C. (2022, February 26). Why the ethical use of data and user privacy concerns matter.
Retrieved September 28, 2023, from https://venturebeat.com/datadecisionmakers/why-the-ethicaluse-of-data-and-user-privacy-concerns-matter
80. C
Transparency. Transparency means being open and truthful when communicating. Corporate governance (the
system by which directors handle their responsibility toward shareholders) that is built upon transparency is
open and honest, with well-built stakeholder trust and accountable leadership. Empathy is the ability to relate to
the feelings, thoughts, and experiences of other people. Fairness is the ability to make judgments and act
without favoritism or self-interest. Viability is the long-term value of your choices and actions.
SOURCE: PD:213 Discuss the importance of corporate governance in business
SOURCE: Price, N.J. (2018, October 10). The principles of good corporate governance. Retrieved September
29, 2023, from https://www.diligent.com/insights/corporate-governance/the-principles-of-goodcorporate-governance

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

20

81. C
Selling price. The selling price variance, which is the difference between the standard selling price and the
actual selling price, can be used to help explain why actual sales were below forecasted sales for a specific
time period. Purchase price variance is used to evaluate differences between supply prices paid and the
standard cost of materials and supplies. Material yield variance is used to determine differences in actual level
of supply use and level of use expected in production efforts. Fixed overhead spending variance is used to
determine why overhead costs exceeded their standard cost for a reporting period.
SOURCE: FI:661 Discuss the use of variance analysis in managerial accounting
SOURCE: Bragg, S. (2023, May 14). Variance analysis definition. Retrieved September 29, 2023, from
https://www.accountingtools.com/articles/what-is-variance-analysis.html
82. C
Do things more efficiently. Achievement-oriented people often want to do things better or more efficiently than
they have ever been done before. They are driven to achieve their goals and meet or exceed a high standard of
success. They do not like to be told what to do or to let others win. They are not satisfied with the status quo—
the way things are. They are constantly seeking to improve.
SOURCE: EI:027 Develop an achievement orientation
SOURCE: LAP-EI-027—High Hopes (Developing an Achievement Orientation)
83. A
Reinvest their retained earnings. Retained earnings are the income the business keeps after dividends are paid.
Businesses report their retained earnings on the statement of equity, which is also called the statement of
retained earnings. The statement of equity shows how much money the business has at the end of an
accounting period. This knowledge enables the business to make decisions about how to use the money, which
may include remodeling facilities, buying new computer equipment, hiring staff, or developing new products.
The statement of equity will not help the business make decisions about how to analyze financial trends, control
its production costs, or organize income statements.
SOURCE: FI:630 Explain the nature of statements of changes in equity
SOURCE: Carlson, R. (2021, April 15). How to prepare a statement of retained earnings. Retrieved September
29, 2023, from https://www.thebalancemoney.com/statement-of-retained-earnings-393591
84. C
The project itself. A project’s quality-management plan includes strategies to ensure the quality of the
deliverables as well as the quality of the project itself. At the end of the project, managers want to look back and
say that it ran smoothly. A project’s quality-management plan cannot ensure the quality of the project’s
purpose—those who are assigning the project are responsible for that. It also cannot ensure the quality of
employee education or organizational investors.
SOURCE: OP:001 Develop project plan
SOURCE: LAP-OP-001—Chart Your Course (Developing a Project Plan)
85. B
You lost money. To prove that a contract has been breached, you must demonstrate that the contract existed,
that the contract was broken, that you lost money, and that the defendant was responsible. More than two
parties do not have to be involved. You do not have to verify that the breach has already occurred; a breach can
be anticipatory, meaning that the terms of the contract will not be fulfilled in time. Finally, you need to verify that
the defendant is responsible, not that no one is responsible.
SOURCE: BL:002 Describe the nature of legally binding contracts
SOURCE: Rocket Lawyer. (2023). Breach of contract: What happens now? Retrieved September 28, 2023,
from https://www.rocketlawyer.com/business-and-contracts/business-operations/contractmanagement/legal-guide/breach-of-contract-what-happens-now
Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

21

86. C
Implement a referral system. A referral is a recommendation given to an individual or business by another
individual or business. For example, satisfied clients may refer their friends, family, or colleagues to their
financial planners for financial advice. This is one way that businesspeople working in the finance industry can
build professional relationships. A financial planner may implement a referral system or program to encourage
clients or associates to provide referrals. A referral system might involve giving a free consultation or discount to
a client who has provided the financial planner with a lucrative referral. Reading about industry trends and
printing new business cards are not actions that build professional relationships. The finance professional must
take action on the trends they have researched and distribute the business cards to others to begin building
professional relationships. Because financial information is personal and confidential, people are usually
selective with whom they share their information.
SOURCE: PD:153 Discuss opportunities for building professional relationships in finance
SOURCE: Das, K. (2020). 4 steps you must take to develop a lasting referral relationship. Retrieved September
29, 2023, from https://www.brightervision.com/blog/develop-referral-relationship
87. B
Lower taxes. Short-term capital gains on investments that are held for less than a year are typically taxed as
ordinary income, whereas long-term capital gains on investments that are held for over a year are taxed at a
lower rate. Holding investments longer than a year does not guarantee dividends, nor does it necessarily
eliminate the need for stockbrokers. Short-term investments are more vulnerable to market fluctuations than
long-term investments.
SOURCE: BL:134 Discuss the effect of tax laws and regulations on financial transactions
SOURCE: Dierking, D. (2023, August 2). Benefits of holding stocks for the long-term. Retrieved September 28,
2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/articles/investing/052216/4-benefits-holding-stocks-longterm.asp
88. B
Removed limits on foreigners' access to domestic financial markets. Liberalization and deregulation have had a
positive effect on financial globalization. Many nations have removed limits on foreigners' access to their
domestic financial markets so that it is easier for foreigners to invest in their countries. Moving from fixed
exchange rates to floating exchange rates (not the other way around) has helped increase global investment in
foreign markets. Decreased tariffs on imports and lowered taxes on international transactions make it easier for
capital to flow across international borders. A home bias is a preference for investments in domestic markets
versus markets in other countries. Nations hoping to attract foreign investment want investors in other countries
to eliminate (rather than demonstrate) their home biases and invest their funds internationally.
SOURCE: FI:575 Explain the nature and scope of financial globalization
SOURCE: Narayanan, D. (2022, March 29). Financial globalization - Is it all good? Retrieved September 29,
2023, from https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/financial-globalization-all-good-deepak-narayanan
89. B
Joe needed a pen, so he opened Ali's desk drawer to look for one while she was away. Employees should not
go through their coworkers' desks, files, correspondence, or personal belongings in the workplace. To do so is a
violation of privacy. When employees respect the privacy of others in the workplace, they are more likely to gain
the trust and respect of their coworkers and managers. Walking away from a serious discussion and changing a
document with the writer's approval are not violations of privacy. Sending a personal email from work is not an
invasion of privacy, but it is wasting company resources because it is not business-related.
SOURCE: EI:029 Respect the privacy of others
SOURCE: Hamlin, K. (2017, July 5). Respecting a co-worker's personal space. Retrieved September 28, 2023,
from https://careertrend.com/respecting-coworkers-personal-space-9496.html

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

22

90. B
Insects destroy a large cotton crop. The decrease in the supply of cotton will cause an increase in prices. An
increase in the corn crop will cause excess supply resulting in a decrease in prices. Negative comments about a
hotel or by activists will probably decrease demand and cause prices to fall.
SOURCE: EC:006 Describe the functions of prices in markets
SOURCE: LAP-EC-906—When More Is Less (Functions of Prices)
91. D
Exceeding customer expectations. “Big Q” focuses on ingraining quality into every aspect of the organization to
meet and exceed customer expectations. “Little Q” focuses on conforming to specifications. Neither approach to
quality management specifically focuses on improving factory conditions or designing and developing products,
although those may certainly be important goals of a quality-management system.
SOURCE: OP:163 Identify quality-control measures
SOURCE: LAP-OP-163—Take Control (Quality-Control Measures)
92. C
Electing members to the board of directors. Shareholders own the corporation. They have a limited role in
everyday tasks but have the power to elect members to or remove members from the board of directors. They
also vote on amending bylaws, disposition of corporate assets, and major corporate changes, among other
things. The board of directors reports the business's success and progress to shareholders, sets the mission
and structure of a company, drafts and amends the company bylaws, and appoints committees. Officers
(president or CEO, vice president, treasurer, secretary, etc.) report to the board of directors, are responsible for
everyday business operations, and act in the best interest of the company. Employees are responsible for
carrying out tasks aligned with the company's mission and, essentially, make the business run.
SOURCE: PD:302 Identify the factors that impact governance structures
SOURCE: Johnson, J. (2023, July 17). The organizational structure of a corporation. Retrieved September 29,
2023, from https://www.freeadvice.com/legal/the-organizational-structure-of-a-corporation
93. B
Foreign exchange. The largest, most liquid financial market in the world is the foreign exchange market. There
are typically more active traders and a higher volume of trading on the foreign exchange market than any of the
other markets. Very liquid markets such as the foreign exchange market experience very gradual, small price
changes, while markets with low liquidity often experience volatile changes in price, meaning that prices change
abruptly and in larger increments than in highly liquid markets. The debt market is also known as the bond
market, and the equity market is also called the stock market. A commodity market deals with raw, primary
products such as oil, silver, gold, etc.
SOURCE: FI:337 Explain types of financial markets (e.g., money market, capital market, insurance market,
commodities markets, etc.)
SOURCE: Dummies.com. (2016, March 26). Liquidity and the foreign exchange market. Retrieved September
29, 2023, from https://www.dummies.com/article/business-careers-money/personalfinance/investing/general-investing/liquidity-and-the-foreign-exchange-market-199884

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

23

94. C
Pie chart. Graphic aids can be quite useful in communicating data to others. The type of graphic aid to use,
however, depends on the nature of those data. A pie chart is most appropriate when showing parts of a whole,
such as the elements of a household budget. A bar graph, on the other hand, is most appropriate when
comparing different items. Word clouds include text of different sizes, colors, etc., to indicate trends, patterns, or
frequencies. Line charts can also be used to indicate trends or changes over time, but they typically present
numerical data, not just text.
SOURCE: CO:087 Select and use appropriate graphic aids
SOURCE: Infogram. (2023). How to choose the right chart for your data. Retrieved September 28, 2023,
from https://infogram.com/page/choose-the-right-chart-data-visualization
95. D
Money market accounts, certificates of deposit, and bonds. Investments in which individuals allow borrowers to
use their money for a period of time for a specified fee or rate of interest are lending investments. Money market
accounts, certificates of deposit, bonds, and savings accounts are types of lending investments. Investments in
which individuals purchase a portion or all of an item are called ownership investments. Collectibles, stocks,
and real estate are types of ownership investments.
SOURCE: FI:077 Explain types of investments
SOURCE: LAP-FI-077—Invest for Success (Types of Investments)
96. D
Transformation. Some purchasing specialists such as Madison buy items for transformation. They purchase raw
materials and components that will be converted into finished products through some type of production
process. These purchasing specialists, also called industrial buyers, typically work for manufacturing
companies. When a business purchases items for resale, it buys things to sell to other businesses or
consumers. Wholesalers are one type of business that buys items for resale. Goods and services purchased for
business use are used by the purchasing agent's own company. This includes such items as equipment,
equipment parts, tools, uniforms, furniture, supplies, and repair and maintenance services.
SOURCE: OP:015 Explain the nature and scope of purchasing
SOURCE: LAP-OP-015—Buy Right (Purchasing)
97. D
Explain the reasoning for any changes. While change is often inevitable, customers might be uncomfortable
with shifts in products, services, or business models. It is important to explain the reasoning behind changes so
clients are well-informed. Financial advisors should not talk about products more than they listen to clients
because the clients' needs might not be addressed accurately. Financial advisors also should not hide gaps in
knowledge with confidence. They should instead be honest about what their background and experiences are,
admitting if they are not the right fit for the clients' needs. Finally, financial advisors should not demonstrate their
wealth in an overt, flashy way because clients might not trust their integrity.
SOURCE: CR:012 Explain the responsibilities of finance professionals in providing client services
SOURCE: Haas, L. (2021, July 23). How transparency in business ethics impacts your bottom line. Retrieved
September 28, 2023, from https://www.constantcontact.com/blog/transparency-in-business-ethics

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1293

FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

24

98. D
Growth in technical knowledge. By forming relationships with other finance professionals, you can gain
technical knowledge and improve your own skills by learning from others. Networking cannot necessarily
prevent job loss, although it might help inform you about changes, risks, or opportunities in the industry.
Generally, professional relationships in finance should not and do not include sharing insider information about
different companies, as this is unethical, if not illegal. Finally, improving marketing skills does not necessarily
relate to building professional relationships in finance.
SOURCE: PD:153 Discuss opportunities for building professional relationships in finance
SOURCE: Rodriguez, E. (2023). Networking tips for finance professionals. Retrieved September 29, 2023, from
https://business.fiu.edu/academics/graduate/insights/posts/networking-tips-for-financeprofessionals.html
99. A
It identifies patterns and trends in a company. Introducing compliance technology into a business has several
positive impacts. This includes identifying patterns and trends in a company, which can lead to a more
competent risk assessment. Compliance technology cannot and should not replace living specialists in a
company. For example, a computer can analyze information and draw conclusions from it, but it is up to the
specialist to determine what to do with these conclusions. Compliance technology will improve a company's
overall efficiency, not reduce it. Compliance technology increases the protection of a company's private data
and information and decreases the likelihood of a data breach.
SOURCE: BL:149 Describe the use of technology in compliance
SOURCE: Craig, S. (2021, August 4). How technology can impact the future of compliance. Retrieved
September 28, 2023, from https://www.complianceandethics.org/how-technology-can-impact-thefuture-of-compliance
100. C
Emphasis on accountability for resources. Stewardship is a principle that states that a company's management
is responsible for ensuring that its resources are used efficiently and profitably. This includes protecting the
company from economic conditions and complying with regulations. Under stewardship, management must be
held responsible to the shareholders. In relation to financial-information management, stewardship does not
necessarily imply that a company has a culture of mentorship. A company that is solely focused on potential
future cash flows is probably not practicing stewardship because this focus may not lead to the best outcomes
for the shareholders and company as a whole. Finally, providing information to shareholders based on
usefulness is important but does not fully describe the principle of stewardship.
SOURCE: FM:003 Explain the role of ethics in financial-information management
SOURCE: University of Nebraska at Omaha. (2020, October 12). Principles of financial stewardship. Retrieved
September 29, 2023, from https://www.unomaha.edu/campus-policies/draft-policies/draft-policyprinciples-of-financial-stewardship—-campus-review-period_10.12.20.pdf

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

