Competency-Based
Competitive Events
*Written Exam*
2024 HS ICDC
Booklet Number _____

Hospitality and Tourism
Cluster Exam
HTPS - Hospitality and Tourism Professional Selling Event
HTDM - Hospitality Services Team Decision Making Event
HLM - Hotel and Lodging Management Series Event
QSRM - Quick Serve Restaurant Management Series Event
RFSM - Restaurant and Food Service Management Series Event
TTDM - Travel and Tourism Team Decision Making Event

INSTRUCTIONS: This is a timed, comprehensive exam for the occupational area
identified above. Do not open this booklet until instructed to do so by the
testing monitor. You will have _____ minutes to complete all questions.

CAUTION: Posting these materials on a website is a copyright violation.
This comprehensive exam was developed by the MBA Research and Curriculum Center
exclusively for DECA’s 2023-2024 Competitive Events Program. Items in this exam were written
expressly for use at DECA’s ICDC. Performance indicators for this exam are at the prerequisite,
career-sustaining, and specialist levels.
Copyright © 2024 by Marketing & Business Administration Research and Curriculum
Center®, Columbus, Ohio (dba MBA Research). Each individual test item contained herein is the
exclusive property of MBA Research. Items are licensed to DECA only for use as configured within this
exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose other than as specifically authorized is
prohibited. Possession of this exam, without written authorization, under any other circumstances
is a copyright violation. Posting to inter- or intranet sites is specifically forbidden unless written
permission is obtained prior to posting. Report violations to DECA at 703.860.5000 and MBA Research at
800.448.0398.
DECA Inc. will impose sanctions on chapters and chartered associations for violations of this policy up to
and including disqualification of competitors and chapters from further participation.

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM

1

1. After the conclusion of a project, it is important to communicate lessons learned with
A. focus groups.
B. relevant stakeholders.
C. friends and relatives.
D. your competitors.
2. When is the best time to identify resources needed for a project?
A. Before defining the project
B. After securing funding
C. After the project ends
D. Before the project begins
3. What is a personal benefit an employee may experience from following the chain of command?
A. Clearer lines of communication
B. Smoother workflow
C. Stronger relationships
D. Faster issue resolution
4. Which of the following is a right every hotel guest has during their stay:
A. Swimming pool
B. Free breakfast
C. Complementary snacks
D. Clean and sanitary conditions
5. Fatima is from a culture where individuals rely mainly on nonverbal communication to get their messages
across. In other words, Fatima is from a __________ culture.
A. neutral
B. affective
C. low-context
D. high-context
6. In an international transaction, which of the following individuals or companies organizes the shipping of goods
and acts as an intermediary between a business and a transportation company:
A. Import officer
B. Freight forwarder
C. Export official
D. Customs broker
7. During a meeting, Lilly's boss asked her if she could take the lead on another project. Although Lilly already has
enough on her plate with two projects due in 10 days, she agreed to take on the project. By the end of the
week, Lilly is stressed, overworked, and worried she won't meet any of her deadlines. Which time-management
principle does Lilly need to learn?
A. Avoid interruptions and distractions
B. Know when and how you work best
C. Don't commit to more work than you can handle
D. Make the most of your downtime with friends

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM

2

8. Which of the following statements about cash flow statements is true:
A. There is only one way to calculate cash flow.
B. They typically aren't useful to investors.
C. Another name for them is income statements.
D. They summarize the cash entering and leaving a company.
9. Enterprise risk management deals with several types of risk. For example, it addresses a hurricane damaging a
company's warehouse where inventory is stored. This scenario describes what type of risk?
A. Compliance
B. Financial
C. Legal
D. Operational
10. A business’s emergency evacuation plan can be more effectively implemented if
A. there is only one marked exit.
B. there is a clear chain of command.
C. employees are insured.
D. there is minimal institutional knowledge.
11. Which of the following is a way businesses in the hospitality and tourism industry can address changing
customer expectations:
A. Keeping up with the latest trends
B. Increasing prices
C. Decreasing inventory
D. Avoiding market research
12. Speakers are better prepared to give an oral presentation if they
A. gesture frequently.
B. speak loudly.
C. encourage discussion.
D. practice their speech.
13. If you model ethical behavior, which of the following is a possible result:
A. You will form positive relationships.
B. You will be less confident in your choices.
C. You will be respected, but not trusted, by others.
D. You will be less likely to achieve success.
14. Cameron owns a laptop, a fish tank, and numerous trading cards. These possessions are all examples of
A. capital goods.
B. equal distribution.
C. private property.
D. the profit motive.

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM

15. Risk management is different from risk control in that risk management
A. aims to increase risk.
B. is a type of risk treatment.
C. identifies, analyzes, and treats risks.
D. involves implementing automations to reduce risk.
16. Charlie has been really stressed at work and in his personal life lately. He books a trip to get away from his
stress and take his mind off work. What is Charlie's motive for traveling?
A. Novelty seeking
B. Nature
C. Escape/relax
D. Self-development
17. A hotel chain is promoting its new holiday deals through targeted promotional content based on customers’
physical location. The hotel chain is using
A. geolocation.
B. voice marketing.
C. just-in-time.
D. QR codes.
18. A resort uses computer software that charges its guests’ food, gift shop purchases, and other resort-related
expenses to their accounts through their room key cards. This software increases the resort's efficiency
because it is
A. complicated.
B. affordable.
C. independent.
D. automated.
19. Employees should __________ to prevent identity theft.
A. have a bad credit history
B. use secure web browsers
C. have only one password
D. keep physical records
20. Businesses can use __________ to visualize or summarize large amounts of data.
A. independent variables
B. descriptive statistics
C. hypothetical samples
D. research questionnaires
21. Which of the following is a benefit of increased technology use in accounting:
A. Improved real-time reporting
B. Longer auditing processes
C. Enhanced altruism
D. Greater costs

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

3

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM

4

22. A retailer allows only a couple of people to handle its cash or make transactions on behalf of the company.
What cash control method is the retailer using?
A. Proper authorization
B. Rotating employees
C. Physical controls
D. Adequate documents and records
23. Conner’s basketball coach recommends a new shot form that is more efficient and accurate. However, Conner
still prefers his own jump shot form. Conner is demonstrating
A. status quo bias.
B. groupthink.
C. herd mentality.
D. competitive spirit.
24. Which of the following are examples of operating expenses a business may pay:
A. Utility costs and interest
B. Rent and loan payments
C. Payroll and benefits
D. Supplies and start-up money
25. Businesses in the hospitality and tourism industry collect __________ data through observations or focus
groups.
A. sales
B. primary
C. internal
D. secondary
26. A gluten-free bakery needs to communicate product value to customers. Which of the following elements should
the business emphasize:
A. The uniqueness of its gluten-free goods
B. The company’s financial statements
C. Friendly competition with neighboring businesses
D. Testimonials from dairy-free customers
27. A small town is a big tourist attraction due to its nearby amusement park. As a result, the town’s restaurants,
hotels, and stores receive regular business and employ hundreds of locals. This is an example of how the
hospitality and tourism industry
A. damages infrastructure of small towns.
B. decreases local expenses.
C. positively impacts local economies.
D. hurts local communities.

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM

5

28. Which of the following are important personal traits one must have to be successful in the hospitality and
tourism industry:
A. A great attitude and inflexibility
B. Communication skills and tech illiteracy
C. Selfishness and empathy
D. Attention to detail and enthusiasm
29. Which of the following is a way in which a company can effectively sell tour packages:
A. Avoid personalized email marketing
B. Understand the target market
C. Regularly change prices
D. Advertise on YouTube, but not on social media
30. Checking for typos, run-on sentences, and capitalization errors is part of the __________ process.
A. fact-checking
B. editing
C. revising
D. thesis
31. “Taste the rainbow” is Skittles’s brand
A. slogan.
B. touchpoint.
C. personality.
D. promise.
32. The Anderson family values the outdoors and natural attractions when they take vacations. Which of the
following would be the best option for their next vacation:
A. An all-inclusive beach resort
B. A city with several historical attractions
C. Great Smoky Mountains National Park
D. Cedar Point Amusement Park
33. Tourism companies should safeguard the natural environment, strive to protect local biodiversity, and consider
the long-term impact of their actions in the communities where they operate. Which of the following ethical
principles do these actions most closely align with:
A. Integrity
B. Viability
C. Rule of law
D. Transparency
34. Dividing hospitality and tourism customers by travel frequency and spending habits is an example of which type
of market segmentation?
A. Behavioral segmentation
B. Demographic segmentation
C. Psychographic segmentation
D. Geographic segmentation

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM

6

35. Which of the following is an example of a secondary tourist resource:
A. Hotels
B. Historic districts
C. Castles
D. Mountains
36. RAX Corporation organizes its corporate branches by region, such as the Northwest Branch and the Southeast
Branch. This is an example of a __________ structure.
A. divisional
B. functional
C. matrix
D. scalar
37. When it comes to negotiating with travel suppliers, businesses should
A. ask their least frequently used hotels for a discount.
B. avoid sharing their travel data with suppliers.
C. communicate regularly with their suppliers.
D. work with rental car agencies but avoid credit card companies.
38. Which of the following documents authorizes a person to take over your financial matters if you are incapable:
A. Advance care directive
B. Living will
C. Will
D. Power of attorney
39. Hotels often rely on airlines to bring in guests, while restaurants rely on hotels to refer customers. This
describes how segments of the hospitality and tourism industry
A. increase the likelihood of repeat customers.
B. decrease the likelihood of repeat customers.
C. do not rely on one another for business.
D. are dependent on one another for business.
40. Which of the following is a stage in a product’s life cycle:
A. Adolescence
B. Retirement
C. Growth
D. Puffery
41. Which of the following is a strategy that businesses can use to prevent customer credit card fraud:
A. Save credit card numbers online
B. Use similar passwords for all log-ins
C. Perform an internal financial audit
D. Request customer identification

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM

7

42. Pineapple Technologies obtains quality parts and materials, creates reliable tools and processes for making
products, and solicits customer feedback regarding satisfaction. Which of the following aspects of quality is the
company demonstrating:
A. Quality reliability
B. Quality assurance
C. Quality control
D. Quality improvement
43. Which of the following is a benefit of key account management:
A. It increases customer loyalty and trust.
B. It decreases the likelihood of customer recommendations.
C. It eliminates a company's competition.
D. It builds strong relationships with more customers.
44. A producer of garden tools or snow shovels might use a(n) __________ production process to make these
products since the products are not in demand all year long.
A. continuous
B. intermittent
C. mass
D. batch
45. If a customer becomes angry, what can an employee do to resolve the conflict?
A. Match their interactions to that of the customer
B. Avoid making eye contact with the customer
C. Interrupt the customer to correct them
D. Remain calm and listen closely to the customer
46. What is a downside of physical records storage?
A. Risk of hacking
B. Limited cloud storage
C. Office space needed
D. Corrupted files
47. Which of the following is the first step to developing a sales proposal:
A. Conduct market research
B. Draft an outline
C. Write the proposal
D. Understand the elements of a proposal
48. Collaboration often means team members must rely on each other and work in a(n) __________ way.
A. independent
B. competitive
C. interdependent
D. solitary

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM

49. Which of the following is a way in which a business can anticipate its customers' needs:
A. Avoiding asking for feedback
B. Knowing its customers
C. Being reactive
D. Making company success its priority
50. Being respectful helps encourage
A. heated arguments.
B. the status quo.
C. constructive dialogue.
D. universal agreement.
51. Natasha wants to search for cities that are called Orange. What would yield the best search results?
A. Orange site: Yelp.com
B. Orange -city
C. “Orange”
D. Orange -fruit
52. Jamari needs to talk to a coworker down the hall about a sensitive topic and wants to be sure his tone is
conveyed clearly. What would be the most appropriate communication channel?
A. In-person conversation
B. Email
C. Instant messaging platform
D. Videoconference
53. Which of the following is a benefit for a company that effectively anticipates its customers' needs:
A. Lower conversion rates
B. Better quality products
C. Higher workload for employees
D. Increased customer loyalty
54. Tracking invoices can help businesses
A. increase their cash on hand.
B. identify billing errors.
C. evaluate their vendors’ performance.
D. market their products.
55. Before developing a strategy to protect its digital assets, a business must
A. take inventory of its digital assets.
B. register ownership of its digital assets.
C. create protective agreements.
D. establish internal protocols.

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

8

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM

56. Childress and Sons receives a shipment of five tons of lumber from Janson Lumber Inc. once every three
months. This is an example of a(n) __________ purchase order.
A. seasonal
B. open
C. standing
D. advance
57. Corinne wants to attend a Coldplay concert, but they are not performing at any venue near her hometown.
Therefore, the concert has no __________ utility to Corinne.
A. possession
B. form
C. place
D. time
58. Where do collectibles like baseball cards and comic books fall on the investment risk pyramid?
A. Moderate-risk
B. High-risk
C. Low-risk
D. Minimal-risk
59. What should you do to safely dispose of household hazardous waste?
A. Dump it in a storm drain
B. Pour it down the sink or toilet
C. Throw it in an empty dumpster
D. Bring it to a drop-off facility
60. What is the mode of the data set [2,3,9,6,4,8,3]?
A. 5
B. 3
C. 9
D. 2
61. Which of the following is the first step one should take when planning a trip:
A. Develop an itinerary
B. Arrange travel insurance
C. Pack efficiently
D. Determine the destination and duration
62. Many customers associate __________ with price.
A. quality
B. flexibility
C. exchange
D. transportation

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

9

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM

10

63. Cedric is a marketing coordinator. He’s an accomplished marketer, but he doesn’t have a good grasp of how his
role fits into the company as a whole. As a result, he doesn’t know he needs to share and report analytics with
the sales team and customer service staff. This is an example of how a lack of organization can lead to
A. miscommunication.
B. a damaged reputation.
C. interpersonal conflict.
D. employee turnover.
64. Hotels can make accessibility a priority for guests with special needs by
A. spacing out furniture appropriately.
B. avoiding the use of automatic doors.
C. constructing the same layout for every room.
D. including a step in the shower.
65. A tool that managers can use to delegate authority is a(n)
A. income statement.
B. inventory record.
C. balance sheet.
D. organizational chart.
66. Which of the following statements about customer voice in hospitality and tourism branding is true:
A. It allows customers to help make business decisions.
B. It does not include customers' needs and wants.
C. Businesses typically don't take customers into account.
D. Businesses tailor their brand to suit their customers.
67. Huntington Bank offers home loans, checking accounts, and savings accounts. These consumer financial
products are an example of a(n)
A. contraction strategy.
B. alteration strategy.
C. product line.
D. product item.
68. If a project’s time frame or budget decreases, its __________ may need to become more limited.
A. bottom line
B. champions
C. scope
D. work breakdown structure
69. What is the most important factor in fulfilling a satisfaction guarantee in the hotel industry?
A. Room service
B. Location
C. Customer service
D. Continental breakfast

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM

11

70. Delano Hotel targets online users who have already visited its website and delivers personalized ads to them.
This is an example of which of the following promotional strategies:
A. Influencing
B. Referral marketing
C. Loyalty program
D. Remarketing
71. A restaurant experiences peaks in demand during the holiday season. What can the restaurant do to prepare
for the peak season?
A. Prioritize inflexibility
B. Prioritize speed over quality
C. Increase prices
D. Hire seasonal staff
72. Which of the following is an example of an extensive decision:
A. Choosing a college to attend
B. Playing basketball with friends
C. Determining what to eat for lunch
D. Selecting what planner to buy
73. During a group discussion, you disagree with another person’s idea. How should you respond?
A. Say, “That sounds great, let’s move forward with your decision.”
B. Say, “You’re wrong. You don’t know what you’re talking about.”
C. Say, “I can see where you’re coming from, but I don’t agree.”
D. Roll your eyes and slump down in your seat.
74. Which of the following actions would occur first in the prospecting process:
A. Selecting sources and methods
B. Identifying and qualifying leads
C. Checking all sources to obtain leads
D. Constructing a lead list
75. Candice tells her travel agent that she wants to take a vacation where she can immerse herself in the history
and culture of the destination. What is Candice's motive for traveling?
A. To exercise
B. To eat
C. To learn
D. To escape reality
76. In an effort to pressure their employer to meet their demands, every employee stops working and leaves their
office building. This describes a
A. strike.
B. arbitration.
C. boycott.
D. mediation.

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM

12

77. Which of the following is an example of a business logo:
A. Starbucks' rotating seasonal menu
B. Apple’s thin and sleek iPhone design
C. Pepsi’s red, white, and blue circle
D. Taco Bell’s commitment to customer service
78. Why do waiters repeat orders back to customers?
A. It prevents the wrong order from being placed.
B. It ensures the customer will order dessert.
C. It leads customers to change their orders.
D. It makes it more likely they will receive a large tip.
79. While watching a football game, Tony saw television commercials for Apple and Samsung. Each ad was trying
to persuade Tony to buy its newest cell phone model. This is an example of __________ promotion.
A. institutional
B. secondary product
C. corporate
D. primary product
80. Which of the following is a benefit technology can have on the hospitality and tourism industry:
A. Higher workload
B. Less self-service
C. More complicated processes
D. Increased efficiency
81. Which of the following are three traits that could help you tolerate uncertainty and ambiguity:
A. Patience, accountability, cowardice
B. Self-confidence, optimism, caution
C. Creativity, bias, calmness
D. Pessimism, flexibility, fortitude
82. Which of the following statements about customer service in the hospitality and tourism industry is true:
A. Technology makes customer service more challenging.
B. Companies should prioritize properly training employees.
C. Every customer has the same needs and expectations.
D. Companies should not allow customers to provide feedback.
83. Which of the following statements about target markets is true:
A. They help marketers meet customers’ needs more effectively.
B. Customers are targeted in the industrial market.
C. They group customers based on their differences.
D. The same person cannot be in more than one target market.

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM

13

84. Nicolette works in the customer service department of a theme park. Which hospitality and tourism career area
does she work in?
A. Travel and tourism
B. Restaurants and food/beverage services
C. Recreation, amusements, and attractions
D. Lodging
85. What is the first step to building a hotel distribution strategy?
A. Test distribution strategy
B. Identify target audience
C. Compare key metrics
D. Identify business objectives
86. A business may use __________ to retrieve customer information from a central location.
A. a CAD program
B. opt-in email
C. a database
D. presentation software
87. Bounty created a life-sized art installation of a giant melting popsicle in Los Angeles to advertise its paper
towels. This is an example of
A. guerilla marketing.
B. sponsorship.
C. publicity.
D. mass media.
88. Parts of a TV show are suppressed because they are considered obscene and politically unacceptable. This
describes what legal issue associated with information management?
A. Privacy
B. Censorship
C. Spyware
D. Beneficence
89. A restaurant creates several new flavors for its original cola, including vanilla, cherry, orange, and lime. This is
an example of
A. product placement.
B. product differentiation.
C. a product recall.
D. a product extension.
90. The codification process helps transform __________ knowledge into __________ knowledge.
A. internal; tacit
B. tacit; explicit
C. tacit; implicit
D. explicit; internal

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM

14

91. Establishing decision criteria will provide __________ when making a decision.
A. information
B. options
C. comfort
D. boundaries
92. In a written report, the section which contains the most important information is the
A. abstract.
B. cover.
C. notes.
D. body.
93. After administering first aid, it is important to
A. perform CPR.
B. contact medical personnel.
C. move the injured person.
D. check the scene for safety.
94. Which of the following is an example of a primary tourist resource:
A. Theme parks
B. Hotels
C. Restaurants
D. Natural landscapes
95. A company's total processing fees for the month were $8,219.90, while its total sales for the same period were
$118,229.07. What is the company’s effective rate for credit card processing?
A. 6.95%
B. 3.3%
C. 10.3%
D. 8.99%
96. The consistency of hospitality products differs based on the service provider’s skill. Which of the following
characteristics does this most closely align with:
A. Intangibility
B. Variability
C. Perishability
D. Inseparability
97. The tourism industry is increasingly using __________ to keep younger customers engaged.
A. open-door policies
B. influencer marketing
C. assembly lines
D. ambush marketing

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM

15

98. For the last several years, Spaghetti Emporium has sponsored the local Turkey Trot 10k fundraiser. What
positive action is the company demonstrating?
A. Demonstrate corporate responsibility
B. Provide excellent customer service
C. Utilize touchpoints to reinforce company image
D. Provide proper training for employees
99. Isaac and Penelope want to spend their next vacation skiing and snowboarding. What type of tourist destination
should they investigate?
A. Winter sports areas
B. Natural areas
C. Beach areas
D. Towns and cities
100. Product marketing is different from service marketing in that product marketing sells
A. a relationship to customers.
B. services to customers.
C. intangible products to customers.
D. value to customers.

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

1

1. B
Relevant stakeholders. Once you’ve completed an analysis of project success, the next step is to share lessons
learned with stakeholders so they can learn from those lessons too. It is not necessary to share the lessons
you’ve learned with competitors or friends and relatives. Focus groups are an important part of the initial datagathering process, but they do not usually need to be involved in communicating lessons learned.
SOURCE: OP:521 Evaluate project success
SOURCE: LAP-OP-521— Making the Grade (Evaluating Project Success)
2. D
Before the project begins. When you’re starting a new project, you might just want to jump
right into it. However, it is important to identify the resources you’re going to need during the planning stage—
before the project begins. One reason this is important is because the necessary resources might affect how
you carry out the project. Identifying resources after securing funding and after the project ends is too late. You
need to define the project before identifying the necessary resources.
SOURCE: OP:003 Identify resources needed for project
SOURCE: LAP-OP-003—Get What You Need (Identifying Project Resources)
3. C
Stronger relationships. Adhering to a company's chain of command can help employees develop strong
professional relationships. Working within a chain of command requires frequent communication with your boss,
which leads to positive communication with your manager. This will allow you to develop a mutually beneficial
relationship with them. Other personal benefits of following the chain of command include contributing to the
company's efficiency and productivity, maintaining order in the company—allowing employees to do their work
in peace—and demonstrating respect for the organization and its policies. Smoother workflow, clearer lines of
communication, and faster issue resolution are each considered benefits of chains of command for companies,
not employees.
SOURCE: PD:252 Follow chain of command
SOURCE: LAP-PD-252—Don’t Cheat the Chain (Following Chain of Command)
4. D
Clean and sanitary conditions. Every hotel guest has the right to have clean and sanitary conditions in their
rooms and common areas. This includes having sanitized bathrooms, tidy rooms, and clean towels, wash
cloths, and sheets. Although many hotels offer a free breakfast, complementary snacks, and a swimming pool,
hotels are not obligated to provide these amenities to their guests.
SOURCE: BL:135 Describe the rights of customers in the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: Thomas, S. (2023, July 3). 5 rights every hotel guest should know. Retrieved November 8, 2023,
from https://hotelchantelle.com/what-are-the-rights-of-hotel-guests
5. D
High-context. A high-context culture is a culture that relies heavily on nonverbal communication to get
messages across. Other cultures rely more on verbal communication—speaking up and saying exactly what
you mean. These are known as low-context cultures. An affective culture is a culture that tends to readily show
emotions. A neutral culture tends to keep emotions controlled and subdued. There is no indication that Fatima
is from an affective or neutral culture.
SOURCE: EC:045 Discuss the impact of cultural and social environments on global trade
SOURCE: LAP-EC-045—On Top of the World (Impact of Culture on Global Trade)

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

2

6. B
Freight forwarder. A freight forwarder organizes the shipping of goods in an international transaction; they act
as an intermediary between a business and a transportation company. Customs brokers, on the other hand,
focus solely on imported goods and act as an intermediary between a business and the customs department.
Freight forwarders work with both importers and exporters. Neither an import officer nor an export official
satisfies this description.
SOURCE: BL:145 Explain the nature of import/export law
SOURCE: Garland, J. (2020, December 16). Freight forwarder vs. Customs broker: What’s the difference?
Retrieved November 28, 2023, from https://www.asianausa.com/freight-forwarder-customs-brokerdifference/
7. C
Don't commit to more work than you can handle. Lilly needs to learn not to commit to more work than she can
realistically do. Taking on more projects than she can handle will prevent her from giving her best effort to any
of them. Although knowing when and how she works best, making the most of her downtime, and avoiding
interruptions and distractions would help her, Lilly’s problem in this scenario isn't related to any of those
principles.
SOURCE: PD:019 Use time-management skills
SOURCE: LAP-PD-019—About Time (Time Management)
8. D
They summarize the cash entering and leaving a company. A cash flow statement is a financial summary with
estimates as to when, where, and how much money will flow into and out of a business. Essentially, they
summarize the amount of cash entering and leaving a company. Income statements are different from cash flow
statements, as income statements show how much money the business has made or has lost over a period of
time. Cash flow statements are important to investors because they tell them how the company is doing
financially, which can help them make more informed decisions about their investments. There are two methods
for calculating cash flow: the direct method and the indirect method.
SOURCE: FI:541 Interpret cash-flow statements
SOURCE: Murphy, C.B. (2023, December 18). Cash flow statement: What it is and examples. Retrieved
November 21, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/investing/what-is-a-cash-flow-statement
9. D
Operational. Enterprise risk management (ERM) is a top-down strategy to identify and prepare for hazards with
an organization’s operations, finances, and objectives. Operational risks threaten the day-to-day activities
required for a company to operate, such as natural disasters that damage company warehouses. Legal risks
threaten a company should the company face a lawsuit or penalty for dispute, regulatory, or contractual issues.
Compliance risks threaten a company due to a violation of external law. Financial risks threaten the debt or
financial standing of a company.
SOURCE: RM:062 Discuss the nature of enterprise risk management (ERM)
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2022, September 7). Enterprise risk management (ERM): What is it and how it works.
Retrieved November 28, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/e/enterprise-riskmanagement.asp

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

3

10. B
There is a clear chain of command. Every emergency evacuation plan should include a specific chain of
command. This creates a clear structure and reduces the risk of confusion or disorganization, which is
especially important in the case of an emergency. There should be multiple exits to any building, not one.
Whether employees are insured or not should not be relevant to an emergency evacuation plan. Institutional
knowledge, also called tribal knowledge, is the sum of information possessed by an organization and its
employees. This typically refers to operational knowledge, and should have little bearing on the effectiveness of
an emergency evacuation plan.
SOURCE: OP:527 Identify factors affecting evacuation procedures/protocols
SOURCE: OSHA. (2023). Evacuation plans and procedures eTool. Retrieved December 1, 2023, from
https://www.osha.gov/etools/evacuation-plans-procedures/eap/elements
11. A
Keeping up with the latest trends. Businesses in the hospitality and tourism industry can address changing
customer expectations by keeping up with the latest developments and trends. Businesses that do this will have
an easier time anticipating and meeting the changing expectations and needs of their customers. Conducting
market research will help businesses address changing customer expectations. Increasing prices and
decreasing inventory will not necessarily address changing customer expectations.
SOURCE: CR:043 Describe customer-service challenges in the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: LinkedIn. (2023). What challenges do hospitality customer service managers face, and how can they
be addressed? Retrieved November 16, 2023, from https://www.linkedin.com/advice/3/whatchallenges-do-hospitality-customer
12. D
Practice their speech. Practicing is the best way to prepare for an oral presentation. There are several effective
practicing techniques. Whatever technique is used, practicing helps a person to become more comfortable and
confident. Speaking loudly, gesturing frequently, and encouraging discussion all take place during the actual
presentation. Therefore, they do not help the speaker prepare for the presentation.
SOURCE: NF:291 Present hospitality and tourism findings orally
SOURCE: Gallo, C. (2020, January 6). What it takes to give a great presentation. Retrieved November 29,
2023, from https://hbr.org/2020/01/what-it-takes-to-give-a-great-presentation
13. A
You will form positive relationships. When people behave ethically, they make good decisions, form positive
relationships, and are more likely to achieve success. If you demonstrate ethical behavior, you will be respected
and trusted by those around you. You will also be happier and more confident in your choices and actions.
SOURCE: EI:132 Model ethical behavior
SOURCE: LAP-EI-132—Practice What You Preach (Modeling Ethical Behavior)
14. C
Private property. Private property is anything of value that people own. It can be business or personal property.
Other examples of private property include land, jewelry, buildings, and clothing. Capital goods are
manufactured or constructed items that are used to produce goods and services. Equal distribution of goods
and services is not possible, even in economic systems set up for that purpose. The profit motive is a desire to
make a profit and is not related to Cameron owning various possessions.
SOURCE: EC:009 Explain the concept of private enterprise
SOURCE: LAP-EC-909—People Power (The Private Enterprise System)

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

4

15. C
Identifies, analyzes, and treats risks. Risk management refers to the process of identifying, analyzing, and
treating risks. Risk control involves implementing procedures, policies, and automations to reduce risk. Risk
control is a type of risk treatment. Risk management uses risk control as a way to treat identified risks. Neither
risk management nor risk control aims to increase risk.
SOURCE: RM:058 Discuss the nature of risk control (i.e., internal and external)
SOURCE: Spacey, J. (2017, April 14). Risk management vs. risk control. Retrieved November 28, 2023, from
https://simplicable.com/risk/risk-management-vs-risk-control
16. C
Escape/relax. A very common motive for travelers is to escape from the stress of their daily lives and to relax. In
this scenario, Charlie is doing exactly that by booking a vacation to get away from his stress and take his mind
off work. There is no evidence indicating that Charlie's travel motive is for self-development, nature, or novelty
seeking.
SOURCE: SE:509 Discuss motivations of travelers
SOURCE: Travel & Climate. (n.d.). Travel motives. Retrieved November 29, 2023, from
https://travelandclimate.org/travel-motives
17. A
Geolocation. Geolocation is software that enables a business to track its opt-in customers' physical location via
their computers or networking devices (e.g., smartphone). A business can use geolocation software to send
targeted promotional content to their customers in real time. Just-in-time is an inventory control method that
involves ordering goods just in time for them to be used or sold. Voice marketing is a strategy where businesses
promote products or services through live or recorded audio content. QR codes are a type of promotional tool
that use two-dimensional barcodes, but they are not always based on a customers’ location.
SOURCE: NF:286 Obtain hospitality and tourism information from online sources (e.g., search engines, online
databases, blogs, forums, listservs, web analytics, social media, geolocation services)
SOURCE: Frankenfield, J. (2021, January 25). Geolocation. Retrieved November 28, 2023, from
https://www.investopedia.com/terms/g/geolocation.asp
18. D
Automated. Automation is the use of technology to control a process. When a resort guest swipes their room
key card to make a purchase, it transmits a transaction to the hotel's software system, which adds the expense
to the guest's bill. Guests typically pay for their purchases when they check out of the resort. This software
increases the hotel's efficiency because it reduces paperwork by using a central bookkeeping system. The
software is not independent. Whether the software is affordable or complicated does not impact how it
increases the resort's efficiency.
SOURCE: NF:106 Use software to automate services
SOURCE: Chi, C. (2022, September 26). Workflow automation explained & 12 best workflow software for 2023.
Retrieved November 21, 2023, from https://blog.hubspot.com/marketing/workflow-automation

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

5

19. B
Use secure web browsers. Identity theft occurs when an individual obtains and uses another person's
information (e.g., credit cards) without that person's consent. To reduce the risk of identity theft, people should
use secure web browsers to make purchases. Because internet sales transactions often require a person to
provide credit card information, it is important to make sure that the web browsers are secure. Physical records
do not prevent identify theft; information kept on paper is also vulnerable to theft. It is recommended to use
many unique passwords online, rather than one password. Having a bad credit history is a potential
consequence of identity theft, not a preventative measure.
SOURCE: OP:654 Explain the nature of identity theft controls
SOURCE: FTC. (2022, April 26). Protecting personal information: A guide for businesses. Retrieved December
1, 2023, from https://www.ftc.gov/business-guidance/resources/protecting-personal-informationguide-business
20. B
Descriptive statistics. Businesses often use descriptive statistics to summarize and interpret the vast amounts of
numeric information they collect. Descriptive statistics include measurements such as mean, mode, median,
range, and standard deviation. These types of measurements help researchers to summarize numeric
information in terms of number of responses, frequency of use, average distribution, and various other
relationships. Questionnaires are used to obtain numeric information. Businesses do not use hypothetical
samples or independent variables to summarize and visualize numeric information.
SOURCE: NF:236 Explain the use of descriptive statistics in business decision making
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2023, March 21). Descriptive statistics. Retrieved November 29, 2023, from
https://www.investopedia.com/terms/d/descriptive_statistics.asp
21. A
Improved real-time reporting. Increased technology use in accounting has numerous benefits, including faster
and more accurate reporting and enhanced business insights. Longer auditing processes is a drawback, not a
benefit—technology often expedites audits. Greater costs are also a drawback. Altruism is the principle of
concern for others’ welfare. It is likely not related to increased technology use in accounting.
SOURCE: FI:352 Explain the use of technology in accounting
SOURCE: Heller, I. (2022, November 30). How technology is transforming accounting. Retrieved November 28,
2023, from https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbestechcouncil/2022/11/30/how-technology-istransforming-accounting/
22. A
Proper authorization. Cash is a liquid, desirable, and portable asset, and companies must have controls in place
to prevent theft or other misuse of cash. Proper authorization is a cash control in which only certain people are
authorized to handle cash or make cash transactions on behalf of the company. The company in this scenario is
not rotating employees, using adequate documents and records, or implementing physical controls. Rotating
employees means moving employees from one task to another, making it easier for the new employee to
uncover any wrongdoings or mistakes of the previous employee. Adequate documents and records refer to
forwarding documents to the necessary individuals and properly recording information. Physical controls include
cash registers only containing enough cash to handle customer transactions, removing excess cash from
registers after each shift, and storing important financial information in locked, fireproof locations.
SOURCE: FI:113 Explain cash control procedures (e.g., signature cards, deposit slips, internal/external
controls, cash clearing, etc.)
SOURCE: CliffsNotes. (2023). Cash controls. Retrieved November 21, 2023, from
https://www.cliffsnotes.com/study-guides/accounting/accounting-principles-i/cash/cash-controls

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

6

23. A
Status quo bias. Conner prefers the current method of doing things, demonstrating a bias for the status quo.
Herd mentality refers to a mob or pack mentality that causes people to be influenced by others or to adopt
certain behaviors. Groupthink refers to a process that occurs when bad decisions are made by a group because
the group’s members fear expressing opinions or suggesting ideas that others may disagree with. Conner is not
demonstrating a competitive spirit because he is not listening to his coach and is choosing a less effective
method of play.
SOURCE: EI:134 Challenge the status quo
SOURCE: LAP-EI-134—Unfollow the Crowd (Challenging the Status Quo)
24. C
Payroll and benefits. Operating expenses, which are all of the expenses involved in running the business, are
often one of the largest sources of money flowing out of a business. There are several operating expenses
businesses pay, including payroll, benefits, rent, utility costs, supplies, and advertising fees, among others.
Payroll and benefits are some of the most important operating expenses, as businesses must pay employees
for their labor and offer benefits such as health insurance, paid vacation and sick time, and retirement savings
to full-time employees. Loans are a source of cash flowing into and out of a business, and they are not typically
categorized as operating expenses. Interest and start-up money are ways in which money flows into a
business, rather than out of it like operating expenses.
SOURCE: FI:091 Describe the nature of cash flow statements
SOURCE: LAP-FI-091—Count the Cash (Cash Flow Statements)
25. B
Primary. Primary data are facts and figures collected specifically for the problem or project at hand. Some ways
in which primary data are gathered include observations, focus groups, or surveys. Secondary information
comes from data that have already been collected for other purposes. Internal data are found inside a business.
Sales data is typically not collected by focus group or observation.
SOURCE: NF:283 Describe methods used to collect hospitality and tourism business information (e.g.,
observations, mail, telephone, Internet, discussion groups, interviews)
SOURCE: SIS International Research. (2021). Travel and tourism market research. Retrieved November 28,
2023, from https://www.sisinternational.com/expertise/industries/travel-tourism/
26. A
The uniqueness of its gluten-free goods. Communicating value means sharing the positive benefits a product
delivers. Put another way, value is the amount of satisfaction a good or service will provide a customer. When
communicating value to customers, businesses can emphasize a product’s uniqueness, or what makes it
different from other products. Emphasizing friendly competition with neighboring businesses and highlighting
the company’s financial statements would not necessarily communicate product value to customers.
Testimonials from gluten-free customers would be more effective than testimonials from dairy-free customers.
SOURCE: PM:214 Communicate core values of product/service
SOURCE: Indeed. (2022, December 5). How to communicate value to customers (plus importance). Retrieved
November 21, 2023, from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/how-tocommunicate-value-to-customers

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

7

27. C
Positively impacts local economies. The scenario is an example of how the hospitality and tourism industry
positively impacts local economies because it brings regular business to the town's restaurants, hotels, and
stores and employs hundreds of locals. The local businesses receiving regular customers and providing jobs to
the community positively impact its economy. This is not an example of how the hospitality and tourism industry
decreases local expenses, hurts local communities, or damages infrastructure of small towns.
SOURCE: EC:136 Explain the relationship between the economy and hospitality and tourism
SOURCE: Ejim, E. (2023, November 5). What is the relationship between tourism and economic development?
Retrieved November 16, 2023, from https://www.smartcapitalmind.com/what-is-the-relationshipbetween-tourism-and-economic-development.htm
28. D
Attention to detail and enthusiasm. To be successful in the hospitality and tourism industry, one should have
good attention to detail and demonstrate enthusiasm. Other traits that can help someone be successful in the
hospitality and tourism industry include demonstrating a great attitude, empathy, flexibility, tech-savviness,
selflessness, and a strong work ethic; communication, leadership, and people skills; and the ability to work well
in teams. Inflexibility, tech illiteracy, and selfishness are not important traits one must have to be successful in
the hospitality and tourism industry.
SOURCE: EI:090 Describe personal traits important to success in hospitality and tourism
SOURCE: Soeg Jobs. (2018, July 18). 10 essential skills and qualities of outstanding hospitality employees.
Retrieved November 16, 2023, from https://www.soegjobs.com/top-10-qualities-great-hospitalityemployee
29. B
Understand the target market. Tour packages offer customers a hassle-free way to experience destinations by
rolling a variety of elements into one, including accommodation, transportation, activities, and more. Tour
packages are typically more cost-effective than buying each service individually, and they can help reduce the
stress of planning. One of the best ways a company can effectively sell tour packages is by understanding its
target market. This allows the company to effectively market toward them and curate tour packages to cater to
their wants, needs, and interests. To effectively sell tour packages, companies should use personalized email
marketing, advertise on social media (including YouTube, Facebook, Instagram, etc.), and keep its pricing
consistent.
SOURCE: SE:515 Sell packaged travel and tourism products
SOURCE: Rezdy. (2016, January 25). 8 tips for selling packaged tours. Retrieved November 29, 2023, from
https://rezdy.com/blog/tips-about-selling-packaged-tourism-products
30. B
Editing. The editing process involves checking for typos, run-on sentences, and capitalization errors. Editing is
focused on sentence-level review. Revising is concerned with clarity, the amount and order of information, and
whether your ideas are presented logically. Revision covers the content. Fact-checking should occur earlier in
the writing process. Constructing a thesis comes after the research phase in the writing process. Neither
involves checking for typos, run-on sentences, or capitalization errors.
SOURCE: CO:089 Edit and revise written work consistent with professional standards
SOURCE: Excelsior Online Writing Lab. (2023, January 30). Revising & editing basics. Retrieved November 28,
2023, from https://owl.excelsior.edu/writing-process/writing-process-overview/writing-processrevising-and-editing/

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

8

31. A
Slogan. A slogan is a memorable phrase used to advertise a product or brand. A brand promise is the specific
benefit that customers can expect from using a good/service and interacting with its company. A touchpoint is
any interaction between a business and a customer or potential customer. Every brand has its own unique
brand personality. This personality is made up of the distinctive traits and characteristics that make the brand
special and set it apart from the competition.
SOURCE: CR:001 Identify company's brand promise
SOURCE: LAP-CR-001—Share the Promise (Identifying Brand Promise)
32. C
Great Smoky Mountains National Park. Because the Anderson family values the outdoors and natural
attractions when they take vacations, they should consider visiting the Great Smoky Mountains National Park.
This is a great place for the family to hike, take in the scenery, and enjoy the outdoors and nature. Based off
their interests, the Anderson family should not investigate an all-inclusive beach resort, Cedar Point Amusement
Park, or a city with several historical attractions.
SOURCE: SE:503 Explain the nature of a region’s geophysical/landscape/aesthetic features
SOURCE: Farrior, L. (n.d.). Finding your main attractors. Retrieved November 29, 2023, from
https://stampdestinations.com/good-work/insights/finding-your-main-attraction
33. B
Viability. Ethics play a vital role in tourism—they provide a framework for decision-making. Viability is defined as
the long-term value of choices and actions. By safeguarding the natural environment, striving to protect local
biodiversity, and considering the long-term impact of their actions, tourism companies are acting with viability in
mind. Rule of law means complying with laws and regulations. Transparency is the quality of being just as one
seems—trustworthy. Integrity means adhering to an established set of personal ethics and sound moral
principles—acting with honesty in all situations. While rule of law, transparency, and integrity are important
principles in hospitality and tourism, they are not being demonstrated in this scenario.
SOURCE: PD:400 Discuss the role of ethics in hospitality and tourism
SOURCE: UNWTO. (2023). Global code of ethics for tourism. Retrieved November 21, 2023, from
https://www.unwto.org/global-code-of-ethics-for-tourism
34. A
Behavioral segmentation. Behavioral segmentation involves dividing customers by their actions and behaviors,
such as travel frequency and spending habits. Psychographic segmentation focuses on personality traits,
lifestyle, and interests. Geographic segmentation divides customers by location. Demographic segmentation
separates customers by factors like age, gender, and income.
SOURCE: MP:035 Identify ways to segment hospitality and tourism markets
SOURCE: Sherwood, P. (2023, March 22). Market segmentation in tourism (What it is & why it matters).
Retrieved November 14, 2023, from https://www.gravitatedesign.com/blog/tourism-marketsegmentation-101/
35. A
Hotels. Secondary tourist resources are locations or attractions that were specifically built to attract tourists.
These include hotels, restaurants, and theme parks. Primary tourist resources are locations or attractions that
did not originally exist for tourism purposes. These include historic districts, castles, mountains, and many other
natural and man-made structures.
SOURCE: NF:281 Explain sources of secondary hospitality and tourism information
SOURCE: Burdett, M. (2017, November 7). Primary and secondary tourist resources. Retrieved November 20,
2023, from https://www.geographycasestudy.com/primary-and-secondary-tourist-resources/

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

9

36. A
Divisional. In a divisional structure, an organization is broken down into units; a common organization of these
units is by territory, such Northwest, Southeast, Atlantic, Midwest, etc. A matrix structure combines traditional
functional departments with cross-functional capabilities to encourage flexibility and teamwork. A functional
structure organizes its units or departments based on their responsibilities or activities. A scalar structure is not
a type of organizational structure. The scalar principle is a rule of organizational design, but it is not an actual
variation of organizational design.
SOURCE: EC:103 Explain the organizational design of businesses
SOURCE: LAP-EC-103—Designed to Work (Organizational Design of Business)
37. C
Communicate regularly with their suppliers. Travel suppliers, or vendors, can include hotels, airlines, car rental
agencies, and credit card companies. When it comes to negotiating with travel suppliers, businesses should
communicate regularly with their suppliers. The relationship between a business and its supplier can impact the
business's ability to negotiate discounts. Regular communication with a supplier can form a strong business
relationship, which will make it easier to negotiate discounts. Businesses should share their travel data with
their suppliers, as this will allow the suppliers to provide their best discount options. Businesses should ask their
most frequently used hotels for a discount rather than their least frequently used hotels. Businesses that work
with travel suppliers do not avoid working with credit card companies.
SOURCE: PM:319 Negotiate terms with hospitality and tourism suppliers
SOURCE: MacNair, M. (2016, August 18). 5 tips for negotiating with travel suppliers. Retrieved November 29,
2023, from https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/5-tips-negotiating-travel-suppliers-mike-macnair
38. D
Power of attorney. A power of attorney is an essential estate-planning document. It authorizes a person to take
over your financial matters if you are incapable. An advance care directive, sometimes called a living will,
identifies your medical and end-of-life care decisions. A will states who owns your belongings and assets after
you pass away.
SOURCE: FI:572 Explain the nature of estate planning
SOURCE: Sember, B. (2023, September 1). 4 essential estate planning documents. Retrieved November 17,
2023, from https://www.legalzoom.com/articles/4-essential-estate-planning-documents
39. D
Are dependent on one another for business. Many segments of the hospitality and tourism industry (hotels,
airlines, restaurants, etc.) are dependent on one another to some extent for business. Hotels relying on airlines
to bring in guests and restaurants relying on hotels to refer customers are examples of interdependency in the
hospitality and tourism industry. It is important for businesses to understand the interdependency among
segments of the hospitality and tourism industry, as it will help them to make informed decisions and adapt to
changes in the market. This does not describe how segments of the hospitality and tourism industry increase or
decrease the likelihood of repeat customers.
SOURCE: PD:399 Describe the interdependence of segments of the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: Novak, P. (2017, April 24). What are the 4 segments of the hospitality industry? Retrieved November
29, 2023, from https://www.hospitalitynet.org/opinion/4082318.html

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

10

40. C
Growth. Products move through the following stages of the product life cycle: introduction, growth, maturity, and
decline. These stages are the basis for product/service planning and management. Product/Service managers
understand how and why competition changes from one stage of the life cycle to another, and they make
decisions based on what will be most effective for a product at its current stage. Puffery is an unsubstantiated
exaggeration or overstatement typically used for self-gain. Adolescence and retirement are not product life cycle
stages.
SOURCE: PM:001 Explain the nature and scope of the product/service management function
SOURCE: LAP-PM-017—Serving Up Products (Nature of Product/Service Management)
41. D
Request customer identification. It is important for businesses to compare customers' credit cards to their
identification. This ensures that the cards they are using belong to them. An internal financial audit deals with
financial activities related to the company, not the customer. Therefore, it would not help prevent customer
credit card fraud. Businesses should not save credit card numbers online because if a data breach occurs,
there is a higher chance that fraud will occur. Rather than using the same password for multiple sites, you
should make unique passwords for each site.
SOURCE: OP:653 Identify credit card fraud prevention methods
SOURCE: Underwood, J. (2023, August 30). How to prevent credit card fraud. Retrieved December 1, 2023,
from https://www.forbes.com/advisor/credit-cards/how-to-prevent-credit-card-fraud/
42. B
Quality assurance. Quality assurance is an organization-wide system that businesses use to ensure that
products meet quality standards. Some important tasks in quality assurance include obtaining quality parts and
materials, creating reliable tools and processes for making products, and soliciting customer feedback regarding
satisfaction and product quality. Quality control is a process that measures products against predetermined
standards after the products have already been created. Quality improvement involves an organization’s
willingness to change and adapt for the purpose of maintaining quality. Reliability, or consistency in
performance, is part of quality.
SOURCE: QM:001 Explain the nature of quality management
SOURCE: LAP-QM-001—Keep It Quality (Nature of Quality Management)
43. A
It increases customer loyalty and trust. Key account management (KAM) is the process of managing and
nurturing partnerships between a company and their customers. One of the biggest benefits of KAM is that it
increases customer loyalty and trust. KAM focuses on building stronger relationships with fewer customers (not
more customers) who show business potential. This means the company can increase the average size of
sales deals. KAM also increases the likelihood of customer recommendations, as it helps companies become
more valuable business partners to customers. KAM does not eliminate a company's competition.
SOURCE: SE:381 Explain the nature of key account management
SOURCE: Indeed. (2023, February 22). What is key account management? (Definition, benefits and tips).
Retrieved November 29, 2023, from https://uk.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/whatis-key-account-management

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

11

44. B
Intermittent. An intermittent production process is one in which production periodically stops and restarts. A
producer of garden tools or snow shovels, for instance, might use an intermittent production process to make
these products since the products are not in demand all year long. A continuous production process, on the
other hand, turns out products in steady demand without stopping, like toothpaste and cellular service. Mass
production means producing products in large quantities, and it is used in the production of such outputs as
jeans, cars, and appliances. Batch production means producing items in specific amounts, or batches, and is
often used to meet specific or short-term market needs.
SOURCE: OP:017 Explain the concept of production
SOURCE: LAP-OP-017—Can You Make It? (Nature of Production)
45. D
Remain calm and listen closely to the customer. If a customer becomes angry, employees should remain calm
and listen closely to the customer. Employees should allow the customer to get what they need off their chest
while remaining calm and demonstrating that the customer is heard. Employees should maintain eye contact
with the customer and avoid interrupting them. Employees should not match their interactions to that of the
customer, as that may make the customer angrier. Rather, employees should set the example for the customer
by remaining level-headed.
SOURCE: CR:044 Resolve hospitality and tourism related conflicts for customers
SOURCE: University of New Hampshire. (2021, July 9). Conflict resolution strategies for the hospitality industry.
Retrieved November 16, 2023, from https://www.nhsbdc.org/blog/2021/07/conflict-resolutionstrategies-hospitality-industry
46. C
Office space needed. Physical records (e.g., paper forms, contracts, statements, charts) take up a significant
amount of space in filing cabinets and boxes. Limited cloud storage, risk of hacking, and corrupted files are all
downsides of electronic or digital recordkeeping.
SOURCE: NF:081 Store information for future use
SOURCE: Southwest Solutions Group. (2023). Differences between digital and physical record-keeping | SSG.
Retrieved November 28, 2023, from https://www.southwestsolutions.com/ssg/office/differencesbetween-digital-physical-record-keeping-ssg/
47. A
Conduct market research. A sales proposal is a written business document that pitches a product or service to
customers or clients. The first step to developing a sales proposal is to conduct market research. Conducting
market research helps you understand your audience and their needs, which you can use in your proposal. The
second step is to understand the elements of a sales proposal, such as an executive summary, a reason to buy,
and a thorough but concise explanation. The third step is to draft an outline, followed by writing the proposal
and proofreading and editing the proposal.
SOURCE: SE:517 Develop and submit sales proposal
SOURCE: Indeed. (2023, July 19). How to write a sales proposal in 5 steps (with template). Retrieved
November 29, 2023, from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/sales-proposal

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

12

48. C
Interdependent. Interdependency involves people relying on each other to accomplish a task. Collaboration
multiplies the talent, knowledge, and resources available by allowing individuals to work as interdependent team
members. When people work in an interdependent way, they rely on each other. Team members brainstorm,
share information, and complete tasks together. By combining their skills and knowledge, they can achieve
more and complete the project in less time. Collaboration does not typically mean team members work in
independent, solitary, or competitive ways.
SOURCE: EI:130 Collaborate with others
SOURCE: LAP-EI-130—Genius Is a Team Sport (Collaborating With Others)
49. B
Knowing its customers. One of the best ways a business can anticipate its customers' needs is by knowing their
customers. Collecting information about customers isn't enough; businesses need to establish active
relationships with their customers by paying attention to their behavior, communicating with them, and being
readily available to answer their questions. Businesses should be proactive, rather than reactive, when
anticipating customers' needs. Businesses should make customer success their priority, rather than company
success. Businesses should ask for feedback from customers, as it will help them to better anticipate their
customers' needs.
SOURCE: CR:053 Anticipate unspoken customer needs
SOURCE: Plaksij, Z. (2024, January 16). The game of chess: How to anticipate your customers' next move.
Retrieved November 8, 2023, from https://www.superoffice.com/blog/customer-needs
50. C
Constructive dialogue. If you show respect to other people and viewpoints, other people will respect you and
your opinions in return. This leads to constructive dialogue (a conversation that is positive and helpful).
Respectfulness should work to prevent heated arguments, not encourage them. Being respectful to each other
does not necessarily mean that everyone will agree, nor does it encourage the existing state of affairs. Openminded and respectful conversations indicate a willingness to challenge the status quo if need be.
SOURCE: EI:136 Consider conflicting viewpoints
SOURCE: LAP-EI-136—Pick a Side (Considering Conflicting Viewpoints)
51. D
Orange -fruit. To search for cities called Orange, Natasha should use the minus sign to exclude results that are
related to oranges as fruit. Using quotation marks will deliver many results that include the exact word “orange,”
which has multiple meanings. Using the minus sign to remove “city” would eliminate the information Natasha is
searching for. Using “site: Yelp.com” instructs the search engine to navigate to content on Yelp, which highlights
businesses.
SOURCE: NF:006 Demonstrate basic web-search skills
SOURCE: Indeed. (2023, February 3). 22 internet search tips on finding what you need online. Retrieved
November 28, 2023, from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/internetsearch-tips

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

13

52. A
In-person conversation. If Jamari plans to discuss a sensitive topic and wants to clearly convey his tone, he
should have an in-person conversation with his coworker. Talking to someone in person allows for back-andforth conversation and lets you use nonverbal communication to enhance your message. Instant messaging
and email communication allows room for misunderstanding of tone, which is important given Jamari will be
discussing a sensitive topic. Videoconferencing would be useful if the coworker was not down the hall.
SOURCE: CO:092 Choose and use appropriate channel for workplace communication
SOURCE: Birt, J. (2023, June 29). 7 essential channels of communication in the workplace. Retrieved
November 28, 2023, from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/channels-ofcommunication
53. D
Increased customer loyalty. A benefit for a company that effectively anticipates its customers' needs is
increased customer loyalty (a customer's preference for a business). If a customer loves a certain brand, they
will often go out of their way to buy it. Anticipating their needs is a great way to earn loyal customers. A higher
workload for employees, lower conversion rates, and better quality products are not necessarily benefits or
results of a company effectively anticipating its customers' needs.
SOURCE: CR:053 Anticipate unspoken customer needs
SOURCE: Gani, F. (2023, September 13). The art of anticipating customer needs: Benefits and tips. Retrieved
November 8, 2023, from https://hiverhq.com/blog/anticipating-customer-needs
54. B
Identify billing errors. An invoice is the formal, printed record of a sale that includes all necessary information of
a sales transaction. The information includes the buyer, the seller, items purchased, quantities, prices, the
delivery date, credit, discount terms, etc. Detailed invoices allow businesses to identify and rectify any billing
errors in an efficient and timely manner. Invoices are a financial tool. Therefore, they do not help businesses
market products. Tracking invoices does not necessarily lead to increased cash on hand—the primary goal of
invoices is to archive financial transactions between businesses. Businesses do not track invoices to evaluate
the vendors' performance levels.
SOURCE: OP:184 Track invoices
SOURCE: Isac, D. (2023, October 11). How to track invoices and payments. Retrieved December 1, 2023, from
https://spp.co/blog/how-to-keep-track-of-invoices-and-payments/
55. A
Take inventory of its digital assets. Before a business can take steps to protect its digital assets, it must first
create a comprehensive list of all digital assets. Once it has accounted for all assets, the business can now
develop a protection strategy. Creating protective agreements, registering ownership, and establishing internal
protocols are all strategies to protect digital assets—therefore, taking inventory of the actual assets comes
before these actions.
SOURCE: OP:517 Comply with strategies for protecting business' digital assets (e.g., website, social media,
email, etc.)
SOURCE: Murray, J. (2020, July 21). How to protect your company's digital assets. Retrieved December 1,
2023, from https://www.thebalancemoney.com/how-to-protect-company-digital-assets-4153375

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

14

56. C
Standing. Standing orders involve sending products at set intervals. This type of purchase order is ideal for
businesses that need the same amount of an item on a regular basis. In the example, Janson Lumber provides
a specific amount of materials at specific intervals. Therefore, this is a standing purchase order. A seasonal
order is an order that is placed for seasonal merchandise, such as snow shovels or beach umbrellas. An open
order is an order for staple goods that is placed with one of several available vendors that can meet the
business's immediate requirements. An advance order is a normal order that is placed now with delivery
requested for a future time
SOURCE: OP:250 Describe types of purchase orders
SOURCE: Procurify. (2023, October 23). All you ever need to know about purchase orders. Retrieved
December 1, 2023, from https://www.procurify.com/blog/purchase-orders-all-you-need-to-know/
57. C
Place. Place utility is the usefulness provided by where a good or service is available for purchase. Since there
is no Coldplay concert near Corinne, the concert has little place utility. Time utility exists when products are
available at the time they are needed. Form utility occurs when the form of a good or service is altered to
provide more satisfaction for the customer. Possession utility is created when ownership of a product is
transferred from the seller to the person who will use the good or service.
SOURCE: EC:004 Determine economic utilities created by business activities
SOURCE: LAP-EC-904—Use It (Economic Utility)
58. B
High-risk. One way to put your investment risk in perspective is to look at the risk pyramid, a graphic way of
comparing investments. With high-, moderate-, and low-risk categories, the pyramid helps you see which
investments are more or less risky than others. Near the peak are the riskiest investments, like collectibles (e.g.,
baseball cards, comic books), while the most reliable returns, like savings accounts and bonds, are at the base.
SOURCE: FI:077 Explain types of investments
SOURCE: LAP-FI-077—Invest for Success (Types of Investments)
59. D
Bring it to a drop-off facility. Household hazardous waste includes items like lighter fluid, oil-based paint,
flammable materials, batteries, bleach, smoke detectors, etc. These items are often labeled with terms such as
danger, caution, and poison. The best way to safely dispose of these materials is to drop them off at a
hazardous waste facility or a mobile collection event. When in doubt, it’s best to check online to determine
proper disposal procedures. Pouring it down the sink or toilet or dumping it in a storm drain causes great harm
to the environment and human health. Throwing it in an empty dumpster is not recommended, as the product
could spill and leak.
SOURCE: OP:134 Practice safe and sanitary handling/disposal of wastes/recyclables
SOURCE: SWACO. (2023). Household hazardous waste. Retrieved November 21, 2023, from
https://www.swaco.org/195/Household-Hazardous-Waste
60. B
3. The mode of the data set [2, 3, 9, 6, 4, 8, 3] is 3. The mode is the most commonly occurring number in a
certain data set. In this case, the mode is three, which appears twice in the data set. The mode is not 5, 2, or 9
because all of those numbers do not appear more than once.
SOURCE: NF:237 Interpret descriptive statistics for business decision making
SOURCE: Purplemath. (2022). Mean, median, mode, and range. Retrieved February 19, 2024, from
https://www.purplemath.com/modules/meanmode.htm

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

15

61. D
Determine the destination and duration. The first step one should take when planning a trip should be to
determine the destination and duration. The second step is to set a realistic budget, followed by researching
and booking accommodations, researching transportation options, creating a flexible itinerary, and checking
passport/visa requirements. After doing all of this, one should then arrange travel insurance. Packing is one of
the final steps of planning a trip.
SOURCE: SE:505 Identify travel and tour plan options
SOURCE: Abbasi, I.U. (2023, June 18). How to plan a trip in 10 simple steps. Retrieved November 28, 2023,
from https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/how-plan-trip-10-simple-steps-iqbal-uddin-abbasi
62. A
Quality. Many customers associate quality with price. Customers associate price with quality—if the price is
high, the quality is high; if the price is low, the quality is low. Businesses must set prices that are realistic to
customers—neither too high nor too low. Although flexibility is a characteristic of effective pricing, it is not
necessarily something many customers associate with price. Most customers do not associate transportation or
exchange with price.
SOURCE: PI:001 Explain the nature and scope of the pricing function
SOURCE: LAP-PI-001—The Price Is Right (Nature of Pricing)
63. A
Miscommunication. A lack of organization makes it difficult for managers and employees to communicate
effectively. Employees might not know with whom to communicate or what to share with others. For example, if
a marketing coordinator does not know how their role fits into the company as a whole, they might not know
they need to share and report analytics with the sales team and the customer service staff. When employees
lack important information, the business can suffer greatly. A lack of organization can lead to a damaged
reputation, employee turnover, and interpersonal conflict, but those consequences are not demonstrated in this
example.
SOURCE: SM:064 Explain managerial considerations in organizing
SOURCE: LAP-SM-064—Put It All Together (Managerial Organizing)
64. A
Spacing out furniture appropriately. Hotels can make accessibility a priority for guests with special needs by
spacing out furniture appropriately. This allows guests in wheelchairs or visually impaired guests to move about
their rooms freely. Automatic doors are essential for hotels, as they make it easier for guests to enter and exit
the hotel without help. Hotels should include roll-in showers rather than showers with steps, as roll-in showers
make it easier for guests in wheelchairs to get in and out of the shower. Hotels should not have the same layout
for every room. Rather, they should have different types of rooms available, especially rooms that cater to
guests with special needs.
SOURCE: CR:054 Accommodate special needs/specific requests of customers
SOURCE: Lacalle, E. (2022, July 5). What is an accessible hotel room and what should it include? Retrieved
November 9, 2023, from https://www.mews.com/en/blog/accessible-hotel-rooms

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

16

65. D
Organizational chart. An organizational chart is a graphic representation of the flow of authority within an
organization. A well-defined organizational chart and clear-cut job descriptions are great tools that managers
can use to delegate authority. A balance sheet is a financial statement that captures the financial condition of
the business at that particular moment (assets and liabilities). An income statement is a financial summary that
shows how much money the business has made or has lost over a period of time. An inventory record is a
document containing information related to the goods that a business has on hand or order.
SOURCE: SM:064 Explain managerial considerations in organizing
SOURCE: LAP-SM-064—Put It All Together (Managerial Organizing)
66. D
Businesses tailor their brand to suit their customers. Customer voice is very important when it comes to
hospitality and tourism branding. Customer voice includes customers’ opinions and reactions toward a brand,
as well as their interests, needs, and wants. Businesses take customer voice into account, as a product that
does not agree with customer interests could hurt a business. As a result, businesses tailor their brand to suit
their customers, allowing the business to garner more sales due to meeting their customers' needs and wants.
While customers influence business decisions, they do not help companies make those decisions.
SOURCE: PM:317 Describe the role of customer voice in hospitality and tourism branding
SOURCE: Proven Partners. (2023). The importance of branding in the hotel and hospitality industries.
Retrieved November 29, 2023, from https://www.proven.partners/blog/hotel-hospitality-branding
67. C
Product line. A product line is a group of related product items. The product items in a product line are
somewhat like the members of a family in their relationship to each other; they often resemble each other in
some way. An example of a product line would be all of a bank’s consumer financial products—home loans,
checking accounts, savings accounts, etc. Each individual good, service, or idea that a business offers for sale
is a product item. An alteration product-mix strategy involves making changes to the company’s products or
lines. Contraction means removing product items or lines from the product mix.
SOURCE: PM:003 Explain the concept of product mix
SOURCE: LAP-PM-003—Mix and Match (The Nature of the Product Mix)
68. C
Scope. Projects are constrained by three common factors—scope, time, and budget. Scope refers to what the
project’s deliverable includes and—more importantly—does not include. Project managers often visualize these
three constraining factors as a triangle with equal sides. If any factor changes, the others will be affected. If a
project’s time frame or budget decreases, its scope may need to become more limited. A work breakdown
structure details the breakdown of the project’s workload into smaller, more manageable parts. A project’s
champion is its sponsor. The bottom line is a business’s net income.
SOURCE: OP:158 Explain the nature of project management
SOURCE: LAP-OP-158—Projected to Win (Nature of Project Management)
69. C
Customer service. A satisfaction guarantee promises the customer will be satisfied with their experience at a
hotel. Many hotels offer a discount or money-back guarantee if a hotel guest is not entirely satisfied with their
experience. While factors like location, continental breakfast, and room service contribute to a hotel guest’s
experience, customer service is the primary means for fulfilling a satisfaction guarantee. Providing excellent
customer service enables a hotel to gain a competitive advantage in the industry.
SOURCE: PM:314 Explain guarantees in hospitality and tourism
SOURCE: Holmes, T. (2023, November 2). What is a hotel guarantee? Retrieved November 21, 2023, from
https://www.wisetour.com/what-is-a-hotel-guarantee.htm

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

17

70. D
Remarketing. Remarketing, also called retargeting, is a promotional strategy that targets online users who have
already visited a website and delivers personalized ads based on their behavior. A loyalty program offers
discounts or rewards to incentivize customers to shop at the business. Influencing or influencer marketing is a
strategy that involves a business paying a third party to promote its products and services. Referral marketing
uses word of mouth and customer recommendations to attract customers.
SOURCE: PR:082 Explain promotional methods used by the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: Event Temple. (2022, February 16). Marketing for hospitality and tourism: A look at the tourist’s
customer journey. Retrieved November 20, 2023, from https://www.eventtemple.com/blog/marketingfor-hospitality-and-tourism-a-look-at-the-tourists-customer-journey
71. D
Hire seasonal staff. To prepare for the peak season, the restaurant can hire seasonal staff. Doing so will allow
the restaurant to handle the wave of customers, keep up with demand, maintain good customer service, and
ensure quality. During peak times, businesses should prioritize flexibility. Increasing prices will not help the
restaurant prepare for the peak season. While speed is important in the hospitality industry, companies should
prioritize quality over speed, no matter the season.
SOURCE: CR:039 Maintain service standards during peaks in demand
SOURCE: Morales, I. (2019, March 6). How to maintain excellent customer service during peak seasons.
Retrieved November 16, 2023, from https://www.globalcallforwarding.com/learn/how-to-maintainexcellent-customer-service-during-peak-seasons
72. A
Choosing a college to attend. Extensive decisions are big decisions that carry risk and can have a long-term
impact. Choosing a college to attend is a substantial investment, both in regard to money and time. Choosing
what to eat for lunch and playing basketball are considered routine decisions because they are everyday
actions. Selecting what planner to buy is a limited decision because it is made infrequently and requires some
consideration.
SOURCE: EI:091 Assess risks of personal decisions
SOURCE: LAP-EI-091—Worth the Risk (Assessing Risks of Personal Decisions)
73. C
Say, “I can see where you’re coming from, but I don’t agree.” During a group discussion, it’s important to politely
disagree. Validating the person’s point of view while sharing your opinion is a way to be respectful and
communicate your thoughts. Telling someone they’re wrong and using accusatory “you” statements will likely
escalate the situation. Rolling your eyes and slumping down in your seat is rude nonverbal communication.
Signaling support for the person’s idea when you actually disagree is disingenuous.
SOURCE: CO:053 Participate in group discussions
SOURCE: Indeed. (2022, August 10). 15 do’s and don’ts of group discussions. Retrieved November 28, 2023,
from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/dos-and-donts-of-group-discussion

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

18

74. A
Selecting sources and methods. Salespeople use the individual prospecting plans that work best for them;
however, there are a few, basic steps that you can follow to construct and use a prospect list effectively. Step 1:
Select prospecting sources and methods. There are many sources and methods available for your use. Choose
the ones that are best suited for your company, your product(s), and you. Step 2: Check all sources. Consult
your sources to obtain leads! Step 3: Construct a lead list. Compile a list of the leads that you were able to
generate through your sources and methods. This list does not need to be arranged in any particular order.
Step 4: Qualify leads. Leads are the names of individuals or organizations that might require your product(s),
while prospects are qualified leads. A qualified lead is a potential customer with certain characteristics that
make him/her more likely to purchase your product.
SOURCE: SE:001 Prospect for customers
SOURCE: LAP-SE-001 Digging for Sales (Prospecting for Customers)
75. C
To learn. Candice's motive for travel is to learn, as she wants to immerse herself in the history and culture of the
destination. Traveling is a great way to educate yourself about landscapes, culture, history, lifestyles, and
languages. There is no evidence indicating that Candice's travel motive is to escape reality, to eat, or to
exercise.
SOURCE: SE:511 Research tourism options fitting client motives
SOURCE: Trickett, C. (2018). 10 reasons to love travel. Retrieved November 29, 2023, from
https://www.andbeyond.com/magazine/10-reasons-to-love-travel
76. A
Strike. A strike is a union pressure strategy in which employees stop working and leave their jobs. Arbitration is
the act of settling a dispute by using an uninvolved third party. Mediation is the process in which a neutral third
party works to help opposing parties resolve a conflict. A boycott is a union pressure strategy in which union
members refuse to buy a company's products and encourage others to do the same.
SOURCE: HR:452 Explain labor-relations issues
SOURCE: Phaneuf, T. (2023, September 26). What is a strike? Retrieved November 21, 2023, from
https://www.nerdwallet.com/article/finance/what-is-a-strike
77. C
Pepsi’s red, white, and blue circle. A logo is a distinctive symbol, design, or group of letters. For example, you
probably recognize the panda used as the World Wildlife Fund’s logo or the red, white, and blue circle used as
Pepsi’s logo. Commitment to customer service, the design of a single product, and the items listed on a menu
are not examples of logos.
SOURCE: PM:206 Explain the nature of corporate branding
SOURCE: LAP-PM-206—Corporate Identity (Nature of Corporate Branding)
78. A
It prevents the wrong order from being placed. Waiters repeat orders back to customers to prevent the wrong
order from being placed. Repeating orders back to customers shows that the waiter heard the customer
correctly and that the right order is taken. Repeating orders back to customers does not lead customers to
change their orders, ensure customers will order dessert, or make it more likely waiters will receive a large tip.
SOURCE: CR:021 Process customer/guest orders
SOURCE: Changing Minds. (2002-2023). Repeat the order. Retrieved November 9, 2023, from
https://changingminds.org/techniques/tipping/bigger_tip/repeat_order.htm

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

19

79. B
Secondary product. Both companies were using secondary product promotion to try to persuade Tony to buy
their cell phones. Secondary, or selective, product promotion is used to stimulate demand for a specific brand of
product. Primary product promotion aims to stimulate demand, or desire, for an entire class of goods or
services. The emphasis is on the product and its uses, rather than on a particular brand. Institutional, or
corporate, promotion does not attempt to sell a good or a service. Rather, it is used to create a certain image of
the company in the customers’ eyes.
SOURCE: PR:002 Explain the types of promotion (i.e., institutional, product)
SOURCE: LAP-PR-902—Know Your Options (Product and Institutional Promotion)
80. D
Increased efficiency. Technology has had several benefits on the hospitality and tourism industry. Increased
efficiency is perhaps one of the biggest benefits, as mobile ordering and the use of artificial intelligence (AI)
chatbots can increase speed and improve guest experience. The use of technology can help lower staff
workload, minimize costs, and make processes simpler. In addition, technology allows for self-service, as
customers can make online payments, check-in and check-out of their hotels on a mobile app, and order food
or products online. Higher workload, more complicated processes, and less self-service are not benefits that
technology can have on the hospitality and tourism industry.
SOURCE: NF:313 Describe the impact of mobile technology on the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: Boston University School of Hospitality Administration (SHA). (2023). Technology shaping the future
of the hospitality industry. Retrieved November 21, 2023, from
https://www.bu.edu/hospitality/2023/01/26/technology-trends-in-hospitality
81. B
Self-confidence, optimism, caution. Three traits that could help you tolerate uncertainty and ambiguity are selfconfidence, optimism, and caution. Other traits that could help include patience, accountability, flexibility,
creativity, fortitude, calmness, and open-mindedness. Cowardice, pessimism, and bias are not traits that could
help you tolerate uncertainty and ambiguity.
SOURCE: EI:092 Develop tolerance for ambiguity
SOURCE: LAP-EI-092—Embrace the Unknown (Developing a Tolerance for Ambiguity)
82. B
Companies should prioritize properly training employees. It is important for companies in the hospitality and
tourism industry to prioritize properly training employees. Employees should have the necessary skills and
knowledge to provide excellent customer service. Technology improves customer service, as it can be used to
streamline processes and can make it easier for customers to interact with a company. Companies should allow
customers to provide feedback, as companies can use it to learn and improve. Every customer is different, so
companies should not operate under the thought that all customers have the same needs and expectations.
SOURCE: CR:049 Explain the nature of customer service in the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: Hotel Covington. (2023). 7 tips for providing exceptional customer service in the hospitality industry.
Retrieved November 16, 2023, from https://hotelcovington.com/press/7-tips-for-providingexceptional-customer-service-in-the-hospitality-industry

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

20

83. A
They help marketers meet customers’ needs more effectively. A target market is the particular group of
customers a business seeks to attract. Marketers group customers by their similarities and pinpoint the
particular group of customers that they seek to attract, allowing their business to meet customer needs
effectively. Customers are targeted in the consumer market, whereas businesses are targeted in the industrial
market. Because marketers target both customers and businesses for many reasons, the same person or
business can be included in more than one target market.
SOURCE: MP:003 Explain the concept of market and market identification
SOURCE: LAP-MP-003—Have We Met? (Market Identification)
84. C
Recreation, amusements, and attractions. Recreation, amusements, and attractions employees are responsible
for ensuring customers have a great time while visiting parks, recreation areas, and other special attractions.
Employees in this career pathway could work in theme parks, zoos, aquariums, museums, sports complexes,
ski resorts, historical sites, or national and state parks. Travel and tourism employees work at travel agencies,
travel websites, welcome centers, tourism publications, airlines, cruise lines, rental car agencies, and
more. Lodging employees work at hotels, motels, bed and breakfasts, inns, resorts, and any other facility
where guests stay. Employees in restaurants and food/beverage services keep restaurants running by
purchasing, preparing, and serving food, among other duties.
SOURCE: PD:272 Explain career opportunities in hospitality and tourism
SOURCE: LAP-PD-272—Career Opportunities in Hospitality and Tourism
85. D
Identify business objectives. The first and most important step to building a distribution strategy is to identify
business objectives. The subsequent steps should all align with a business’s objectives. Identifying the target
audience, testing the distribution strategy, and comparing key metrics are all steps that come after the
identification of business objectives. This is so that these activities can refer back to the business objectives.
SOURCE: OP:529 Explain the concept of place (distribution) in the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: Fredericks, L. (2023, October 20). The complete guide to hotel distribution systems. Retrieved
December 1, 2023, from https://www.cvent.com/en/blog/hospitality/hotel-distribution-channels
86. C
A database. A database is a collection of information that a business can retrieve quickly. Many businesses use
databases to store information about their customers, such as contact information and buying preferences.
Presentation software is a computer application that displays a slideshow. Opt-in email messages are electronic
promotional messages that are sent with a recipient's permission and allow the recipients to request removal
from the subscriber list at any time. A CAD program is a computer software program that allows users to create
multidimensional graphics.
SOURCE: NF:284 Obtain business information from customer databases
SOURCE: Frankenfield, J. (2022, September 14). What is a data warehouse? Retrieved November 28, 2023,
from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/d/data-warehousing.asp

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

21

87. A
Guerilla marketing. Guerrilla marketing includes any promotional techniques that are unconventional, low-cost,
and focused on attracting attention. Examples include street art (like Bounty’s giant popsicle), product
ambassadors, and images placed on everyday objects. Publicity is an identity-building tactic defined as any
nonpersonal presentation of ideas, goods, or services that is not paid for by the company or individual that
benefits from or is harmed by it. Mass media includes TV and radio commercials, print ads, and billboards.
Sponsorship is a promotional activity that occurs when an organization provides money or resources to an
event, person, or activity in exchange for affiliation.
SOURCE: PR:003 Identify the elements of the promotional mix
SOURCE: LAP-PR-903—Spread the Word (Nature of the Promotional Mix)
88. B
Censorship. Censorship refers to the suppression or prohibition of speech, books, news, films, TV, or other
information that are considered obscene, harmful, politically unacceptable, or offensive. This scenario does not
describe privacy, spyware, or beneficence. Privacy is a concept in which only users have access to their
personal information and denies access to unauthorized users. Spyware is computer software that allows a
user to obtain or steal someone else's personal information. Beneficence is an act or deed that benefits
someone else rather than your own interest.
SOURCE: NF:076 Explain legal issues associated with information management
SOURCE: SlideShare. (2017, December 7). Legal issues associated with information management. Retrieved
November 29, 2023, from https://www.slideshare.net/DanielAppiah6/legal-issues-associated-withinformation-management
89. D
A product extension. A product extension is the strategy of placing an established product's brand name on a
new product within the same category. A restaurant creating several new flavors for its original cola is an
example of a product extension. Product differentiation is a strategy for making a product appear different from
similar products on the market. Product placement is a type of “other” media that uses branded products as
props in movies, TV shows, online videos, and video games. A product recall is the removal from the
marketplace of a product that is defective or hazardous to consumers.
SOURCE: PM:099 Explain the nature of product extensions in the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: Hirsh, L. (n.d.). What is product extension in marketing? Retrieved November 29, 2023, from
https://smallbusiness.chron.com/product-extension-marketing-65988.html
90. B
Tacit; explicit. The knowledge codification process helps transform tacit (or implicit) knowledge into explicit (or
formalized) knowledge. Tacit knowledge is gained through personal experience. The codification process
transforms tacit knowledge into accessible and shareable explicit knowledge. Internal knowledge is not a widely
recognized term.
SOURCE: KM:005 Identify techniques that can be used to capture and transfer knowledge in an organization
SOURCE: LinkedIn. (2023, April 5). What are the best practices and principles for knowledge codification and
categorization? Retrieved November 14, 2023, from https://www.linkedin.com/advice/0/what-bestpractices-principles-knowledge-codification

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

22

91. D
Boundaries. Establishing decision criteria will provide boundaries when making a choice. Decision criteria will
help you determine the choices that will lead to achieving a goal. Decision criteria do not provide options.
Identifying alternatives is the step in which a variety of options are provided. Establishing decision criteria does
not necessarily provide comfort or additional information.
SOURCE: PD:017 Make decisions
SOURCE: LAP-PD-017—Weigh Your Options (Decision-Making)
92. D
Body. The main part of a complex written report is the body, which contains the major portion of the information.
The cover is the first page and usually contains the title of the report. The abstract appears before the body and
is a short summary of the report information. The notes appear after the body and contain reference
information.
SOURCE: NF:292 Prepare written reports for hospitality and tourism decision-making
SOURCE: Indeed. (2023, July 19). How to write a formal business report in 11 steps. Retrieved November 29,
2023, from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/formal-business-reportexample
93. B
Contact medical personnel. After administering first aid, you should always contact medical professionals (via 91-1 or equivalent hotline) to ensure that the injured or ill person receives proper medical treatment. This is true
even if the injured or ill person is showing signs of recovery. Checking the scene for safety should be done prior
to administering first aid. Moving the injured person can be dangerous depending on the situation. Performing
CPR is a component of first aid and not something that occurs after administering first aid.
SOURCE: OP:657 Provide first-aid
SOURCE: American Red Cross. (2023). First aid steps. Retrieved December 1, 2023, from
https://www.redcross.org/take-a-class/first-aid/performing-first-aid/first-aid-steps
94. D
Natural landscapes. Primary tourist resources are locations or attractions that did not originally exist for tourism
purposes. These include historic districts, castles, and other natural structures and landscapes such as
mountains, forests, and oceans. Secondary tourist resources are locations or attractions that were specifically
built to attract tourists. These include hotels, restaurants, and theme parks.
SOURCE: NF:282 Explain types of primary hospitality and tourism market information
SOURCE: Burdett, M. (2017, November 7). Primary and secondary tourist resources. Retrieved November 20,
2023, from https://www.geographycasestudy.com/primary-and-secondary-tourist-resources/
95. A
6.95%. An effective rate is the average percentage a merchant pays to process a credit card transaction. The
formula to calculate effective rate is: (Total amount deducted for processing / total monthly sales) x 100. When
inserting the information from this scenario, the formula is: (8,219.90 / 118,229.07) x 100 = 6.95%.
SOURCE: FI:790 Calculate credit-card processing costs
SOURCE: Rej, M. (2023, April 10). How do you calculate processing rates? Retrieved November 16, 2023,
from https://merchantcostconsulting.com/lower-credit-card-processing-fees/how-do-you-calculateprocessing-rates

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

23

96. B
Variability. Hospitality and tourism products are highly variable or inconsistent. Consistency differs based on the
service provider’s skillset. Guests often have different expectations, which contributes to variability in hospitality
and tourism. Perishability means hospitality products can’t be stored for later use. Inseparability refers to the
fact that both hospitality customers and employees are intertwined and become part of the service. Intangibility
means hospitality and tourism products can’t always be felt, seen, heard, or tasted before or after purchase.
SOURCE: PM:081 Explain the concept of product in the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: Geographic Book. (2023, September 3). Characteristics of tourism product. Retrieved November 21,
2023, from https://geographicbook.com/characteristics-of-tourism-product/
97. B
Influencer marketing. Influencer marketing is a marketing strategy that involves paying a third party to promote
a business’s products or services. The tourism industry is increasingly leveraging influencers—prominent
people on social media—to appeal to younger customers, who are statistically more likely to be active on social
media. Ambush marketing is a promotional technique whereby a non-sponsoring business tries to associate
with an event to gain recognition as a sponsor. Assembly lines are a production method in which the product
moves past workers who each do one assigned production task and is rarely used in the tourism industry. An
open-door policy is a business practice whereby management encourages communication between employees
and their superiors.
SOURCE: NF:048 Describe current issues and trends in the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: Smart Meetings. (2023, July 21). Top 10 trends impacting the hospitality industry. Retrieved
November 20, 2023, from https://www.smartmeetings.com/tips-tools/74256/top-10-trends-impactinghospitality-industry
98. A
Demonstrate corporate responsibility. All companies have an impact on the communities around them, and they
should ensure that impact is positive rather than negative. One way businesses can exhibit corporate
responsibility is by showing concern for the community, like by sponsoring youth programs, organizing food
drives, hosting charity benefits, or raising money for disaster relief. Providing proper training for employees,
utilizing touchpoints to reinforce company image, and providing excellent customer service are positive
company actions, but they are not being demonstrated in the example.
SOURCE: MK:019 Demonstrate connections between company actions and results (e.g., influencing consumer
buying behavior, gaining market share, etc.)
SOURCE: LAP-MK-019—Just Do It…Right (Company Actions and Results)
99. A
Winter sports areas. Because Isaac and Penelope want to spend their next vacation skiing and snowboarding,
they should investigate winter sports areas. People travel to destinations with winter conditions (real or artificial)
to participate in winter sports activities, such as skiing, snowboarding, ice skating, and tobogganing. Isaac and
Penelope should not investigate beach areas (islands, resorts, etc.), towns and cities, or natural areas
(mountains, forests, etc.) to ski or snowboard.
SOURCE: SE:502 Discuss key travel destinations in major geographical regions
SOURCE: Stainton, H. (2023, January 9). The 9 types of tourist destinations. Retrieved November 28, 2023,
from https://tourismteacher.com/types-of-tourist-destinations

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

2024 HS ICDC

HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY

24

100. D
Value to customers. Product marketing refers to the entire process of delivering a product to a customer and
receiving feedback. Service marketing involves a person or business promoting services it offers to its
customers. Where product marketing sells value to customers in the form of products, service marketing sells a
relationship to customers in the form of services. Product marketing sells tangible products, whereas the
services in service marketing are intangible.
SOURCE: MK:008 Differentiate between service marketing and product marketing
SOURCE: Surbhi, S. (2018, January 20). Difference between product marketing and service marketing.
Retrieved November 21, 2023, from https://keydifferences.com/difference-between-product-andservice-marketing.html

Copyright © 2024 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio

