1. What is one of the main purposes of establishing financial regulations? 
A. To push for change in banking laws.
B. To maximize profits for the financial system.
C. To protect institutions from customers.
D. To maintain the integrity of the financial system.

1. D
To maintain the integrity of the financial system. Financial regulations are a form of supervision of financial markets and institutions. One of the main purposes of financial regulations is to maintain the integrity of the financial system. They also aim to enforce applicable laws, protect clients, prosecute cases of market misconduct, maintain confidence in the financial system, etc. Pushing for change in banking laws, maximizing profits for the financial system, and protecting institutions from customers are not purposes of financial regulations. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: Degirmenci, A. (2019, May 10). What is financial regulation and why is it important? Retrieved
February 6, 2024, from https://www.leasinglife.com/news/industry-news/what-is-financialregulation/?cf-view 

2. Which of the following is an example of broadcast media: 
A. Direct mail
B. Banner ad
C. TV
D. Newspaper

2. C
TV. Broadcast media is promotional media including radio and TV that may be transmitted through the air, cable, or internet. Broadcast media are considered “time” media, as opposed to “space” media because their advertisements last only as long as they are on the air. Newspapers are a type of publication. Banner ads are a type of digital advertisement. Direct mail can include printed mail or email. Newspapers, banner ads, and direct mail are not examples of broadcast media. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-PR-007—Ad-quipping Your Business (Types of Advertising Media)

3. Student loan deferment allows you to stop making payments on your loan for 
A. up to 5 years.
B. 10 months.
C. up to 3 years.
D. 6 months.

3. C
Up to 3 years. A student loan deferment allows you to stop making payments on your student loans for up to 3 years. Student loan deferment does not cancel the loan. Rather, it delays payment on the loan until the deferment period is over. You must apply and qualify for deferment unless you are enrolled in school at least part time. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Probasco, J. (2023, December 12). Student loan deferment: What it is, who qualifies, and how to get
it. Retrieved February 5, 2024, from https://www.investopedia.com/what-is-student-loan-deferment4771251 

4. Leonard missed a payment on his personal loan two days ago, and he doesn't expect to have the money to pay it off until he receives his next paycheck in a week. What consequence is Leonard most likely to face in this situation? 
A. His lender will "charge off" his account.
B. He will default on his loan.
C. His account will be considered delinquent.
D. He'll be charged a late fee by his lender.

4. D
He'll be charged a late fee by his lender. Leonard will most likely be charged a late fee by his lender because he missed his payment. However, lenders don't report missed personal loan payments to credit bureaus until one billing cycle, or typically 30 days, has passed. If Leonard doesn't make his payment at least 30 days past due, his account would be considered delinquent. If Leonard goes anywhere from 90 to 120 days without making a payment, he will default on his loan, meaning he failed to repay the loan according to the terms of his loan agreement. If Leonard goes 120 days or more without making a payment, the lender will typically "charge off" his account, meaning that the lender gave up trying to collect money from him and likely sold his debt to a thirdparty collection agency. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Axelton, K. (2022, August 10). What happens if you don't pay back a personal loan? Retrieved
February 5, 2024, from https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-happens-if-you-dont-payback-personal-loan 2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 2 

5. Which of the following is an example of cash flow from investing activities: 
A. Salary and wages paid
B. Dividend payments
C. Income tax payments
D. Purchase of fixed assets

5. D
Purchase of fixed assets. A cash flow statement bridges the gap between the income statement and balance sheet, as it provides an account of how much cash is generated or spent in a specific period on operating, financing, and investing activities. A purchase of fixed assets is an example of cash flow from investing activities. More examples of cash flow from investing activities include a purchase of investments (such as stocks or securities), a sale of fixed assets, and lending money. Dividend payment is an example of cash flow from financing. Salary and wages paid and income tax payments are examples of cash flow from operating activities. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 12
SOURCE: Kenton, W. (2022, June 30). Cash flow from investing activities explained: Types and examples.
Retrieved February 8, 2024, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/c/cashflowfinvestingactivities.asp 

6. Which of the following is a reason for a soft credit inquiry: 
A. Employment background check
B. Request for a credit limit increase
C. Credit card application
D. Car loan application

6. A
Employment background check. A soft credit inquiry typically occurs when a person or company checks your credit during a background check. This can happen if you're hired by a company or if a credit card issuer checks your credit without your permission to see if you qualify for certain offers. A car loan application, a credit card application, and a request for a credit limit increase are reasons for a hard credit inquiry. A hard credit inquiry typically occurs when a financial institution (such as a lender or credit card issuer) checks your credit when making a lending decision. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Devaney, T. (2023, April 4). Hard credit inquiry vs. soft credit inquiry: What they are and why they
matter. Retrieved February 5, 2024, from https://www.creditkarma.com/advice/i/hard-credit-inquiriesand-soft-credit-inquiries 

7. Using both a passcode and a fingerprint scan is a form of __________, which helps protect your information from scammers. 
A. phishing
B. channel management
C. multi-factor authentication
D. large-language model

7. C
Multi-factor authentication. Using a combination of passcode and fingerprint scan is a form of multi-factor authentication, a security measure that helps protect your information from scammers and identity thieves. A large-language model is a massive machine learning algorithm that can understand and generate text or other content. Phishing is an online identity-theft scam that fools victims into believing they are submitting sensitive, personal information (such as credit card numbers or bank passwords) to a legitimate website. Channel management is a marketing function that involves identifying, selecting, monitoring, and evaluating sales channels. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Federal Trade Commission. (2023, November 9). What to know about identity theft. Retrieved
February 5, 2024, from https://consumer.ftc.gov/articles/what-know-about-identity-theft 

8. John is typically good about sticking to his budget, but due to unforeseen events, he is anticipating a hefty car repair bill next month. What should John do to adjust for this unexpected expense in his budget? 
A. Decrease essential expenses
B. Increase nonessential expenses
C. Earn more money
D. Reevaluate his spending habits

8. D
Reevaluate his spending habits. Emergencies happen to everyone. It’s a good idea to have an emergency fund saved up in case you incur unexpected expenses. However, if you don’t have an emergency fund, you can also reevaluate your spending habits during or ahead of a financial emergency to make sure you’re spending your money in the most strategic way possible. In John’s case, he should reevaluate his spending habits to make sure he can cover his basic needs and his upcoming bill. Increasing nonessential expenses is the opposite of what John should do. Decreasing essential expenses may not be feasible—they’re essential for a reason. Earning more money is not a viable option for John, as this is likely up to his employer, not him. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: Egan, J. (2021, March 16). How to change your budget in a financial emergency. Retrieved February
5, 2024, from https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-adjust-your-budget-for-afinancial-emergency/ 2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 3 

9. Carla is grocery shopping for the week, picking up ingredients for her carefully planned meals. She intends to make a casserole for dinner, but as she walks past the “Grab & Go” section of the store, her stomach rumbles when she smells the ready-made pizza. She impulsively decides to buy a pizza for dinner instead. This is an example of a purchasing decision influenced by 
A. past experience.
B. physical condition.
C. social responsibility.
D. emotional state.

9. B
Physical condition. It’s important to consider your physical condition when you are making decisions—especially important ones. When people are sick, tired, or hungry, they often make impulsive decisions because they don’t have the energy or willpower to think carefully or logically. In Carla’s case, she let her hunger influence her purchasing decision, choosing to buy a pizza impulsively instead of following her original dinner plan. Emotional state, past experience, and a feeling of social responsibility can all influence purchase decisions, but they are not demonstrated in this example. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-EI-091—Worth the Risk (Assessing Risks of Personal Decisions)

10. Which of the following statements about I bonds is true: 
A. You can buy an unlimited amount of them.
B. They earn interest for 5 years.
C. They protect money from inflation.
D. You can't cash them out until 30 years.

10. C
They protect money from inflation. I bonds are safe investments that protect money from losing value due to inflation. They do this by paying both a fixed rate return and an inflation-adjusted variable rate return. There is a limit to how much you can invest, as you generally can't buy more than $10,000 in I bonds each year. I bonds mature after 30 years, meaning that interest is continually earned for 30 years unless you cash them out. You can cash out an I bond as early as 1 year after your initial purchase. However, cashing in early, especially within 5 years, means you forfeit the last 3 months of interest earned. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: Gravier, E. (2023, March 6). I bonds: What to know about this inflation-protected asset that is offering
a 6.89% return. Retrieved February 6, 2024, from https://www.cnbc.com/select/what-are-i-bonds 

11. Which of the following best describes a Roth IRA: 
A. It gives you immediate tax benefits.
B. It ensures money grows tax-deferred.
C. It allows you to make after-tax contributions.
D. It allows you to make pre-tax contributions.

11. C
It allows you to make after-tax contributions. A Roth IRA is an Individual Retirement Account in which you contribute after-tax dollars. This means that your money grows tax-free and you can generally make tax-free and penalty-free withdrawals after the age of 59 1/2. With a traditional IRA, you contribute pre-tax dollars, meaning you receive immediate tax benefits. Traditional IRAs grow your money tax-deferred, and withdrawals are taxed as current income after you turn 59 1/2. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (2024). Roth IRA vs. traditional IRA. Retrieved February 7, 2024, from
https://www.schwab.com/ira/roth-vs-traditional-ira 

12. The federal government places a new tax on alcohol and tobacco products within its borders. The function of this tax is to 
A. control imports.
B. limit business profits.
C. regulate business activity.
D. reduce liability.

12. C
Regulate business activity. Governments tax certain products, such as alcohol and tobacco, to discourage consumers from buying them. These taxes have an impact on the businesses that produce and sell these products. Although business profit is taxed, the function of the tax is not to limit profit. Taxes do not reduce liability. Since these alcohol and tobacco products are within the country, they are not imports. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-EC-072—Pay Your Share (Business Taxes)
2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 4 

13. Which of the following is a way to increase your credit score: 
A. Increase your credit utilization
B. Apply for new accounts more often
C. Pay down revolving account balances
D. Close your oldest accounts

13. C
Pay down revolving account balances. One way to increase your credit score is to pay down revolving account balances. A high balance on revolving credit accounts (such as credit card accounts) can lead to a high credit utilization rate, which hurts your credit score. Maintaining a low balance on a revolving credit account relative to their credit limits can improve your credit score. Decreasing your credit utilization, not increasing it, will help your score. Another way to improve your credit score is to limit how often you apply for new accounts. The more you apply for new credit accounts, the more likely a hard inquiry is done on your account, which can lower your credit score. The length of time you've had credit is another factor that can impact your credit score. The longer you've had credit, the better. Thus, to increase your credit score, you should not close your oldest accounts unless there is a compelling reason to do so. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Experian. (2024). How to improve your credit score. Retrieved February 5, 2024,
from https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/improving-credit/improve-creditscore 

14. Which of the following is typically a benefit of attending a community college: 
A. It focuses on delivering a basic education.
B. It avoids overhead costs like meal plans and housing.
C. It has larger class sizes than a university.
D. It has a more competitive application process.

14. B
It avoids overhead costs like meal plans and housing. One of the biggest benefits of a community college is that it is cheaper than a traditional college or university. Depending on the college or university, the cost difference between community college and a traditional four-year institution can be significant. By attending community college, students also typically skip out on overhead costs like meal plans and housing. Other benefits of community college are that it has an easier application process (not a more competitive one), smaller class sizes than a university, transferable credits, and flexible schedules. A con of community college is that the focus is on delivering a basic education, career certificates, and associate degrees. Although some community colleges offer four-year bachelor's degrees, many students that want to earn a bachelor's degree need to attend a four-year university after completing their program at community college. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Carignan, N. (2023, September 21). Community college vs. university: Pros and cons. Retrieved
February 5, 2024, from https://mwcc.edu/blog/community-college-vs-university 

15. Wren is enrolled in __________, which provides health care coverage for specific groups, including pregnant people with low income and children of low-income families. 
A. Medicaid
B. Life insurance
C. Outpatient services
D. Medicare

15. A
Medicaid. Medicaid provides health care coverage for specific groups of people, including pregnant people with low income, children of low-income families, and parents or caregivers with low income. In general, Medicare is for people who are 65 years or older and individuals with disabilities. Life insurance pays a designated amount upon the death of an insured person. Outpatient services refer to anything that doesn’t require hospitalization. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: UnitedHealthcare. (2024). What is Medicaid? Retrieved February 5, 2024,
from https://www.uhc.com/communityplan/medicaid/what-is-medicaid 

16. When would a person select term life insurance instead of whole life insurance? 
A. They want long-term coverage.
B. They want coverage for a specific time period.
C. They want insurance that builds cash value.
D. They want to pay higher premiums.

16. B
They want coverage for a specific time period. Term life insurance provides coverage for a set amount of time, typically 10, 20, or 30 years. Whole life insurance provides coverage for an entire lifetime, builds guaranteed cash value over time, and costs more than term life insurance. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Rose, G. (2023, G.). Term life vs. Whole life insurance: Differences and how to choose. Retrieved
February 2, 2024, from https://www.nerdwallet.com/article/insurance/term-vs-whole-life-insurance 2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 5 

17. When inflation occurs, the __________ of consumers is reduced. 
A. retirement contributions
B. decision-making abilities
C. interest rates
D. purchasing power

17. D
Purchasing power. A steady rise in the general price levels of goods and services over time is known as inflation. When inflation occurs, the purchasing power of the dollar is reduced. In other words, your money won’t buy as much tomorrow as it will today. Inflation does not necessarily lead to reduced retirement contributions, decision-making abilities, or interest rates. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-EC-083—Up, Up, and Away (Inflation)

18. Which of the following individuals would be eligible for workers’ compensation: 
A. Eliana twists her ankle at a company picnic.
B. Dusten falls off a forklift in the warehouse.
C. Betsy is in a car accident on her way to work.
D. Roberto slips on ice outside his house.

18. B
Dusten falls off a forklift in the warehouse. Workers’ compensation covers accidents and injuries that occur during the scope of work. Dusten falling off a forklift in the warehouse occurred during his regularly scheduled duties. Workers’ compensation does not cover incidents that happen on the way to work, so Betsy would not be covered. Roberto slipping on ice is unrelated to work, so he wouldn’t be covered either. Workers’ compensation does not cover recreational activities like company picnics or holiday parties, so Eliana’s injury wouldn’t be covered. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Adam S. Kutner, Injury Attorneys. (2024, February 1). What is not covered by workers’
compensation? Retrieved February 5, 2024, from https://www.askadamskutner.com/workerscompensation/not-covered-by-workers-compensation/ 

19. Kendra sells her shares in an electronics company after an employee informs her that the firm would be receiving government sanctions. This is an example of 
A. investing.
B. accounting.
C. insider trading.
D. embezzlement.

19. C
Insider trading. Insider trading refers to the buying or selling of a public company's stock or other securities by someone who has material nonpublic information about the stock. Insider trading is illegal when the material information is not public. Because Kendra obtained material nonpublic information about the company she invested in, she committed insider trading. Embezzlement is the theft of business resources that have been entrusted to one’s care. Investing is building wealth by using money to make money. Accounting is the process of keeping and interpreting financial records. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 12
SOURCE: Ganti, A. (2023, September 8). What is insider trading, and when is it legal? Retrieved February 8,
2024, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/i/insidertrading.asp 

20. If a business owns the building in which it operates, it must pay __________ to the government. 
A. fines
B. rental fees
C. property taxes
D. tariffs

20. C
Property taxes. Businesses that own buildings and land must pay property taxes to the government at specific intervals. The property-tax amount is based on the value of the land and building. Since the business owns the building, it would not have to pay rent. Tariffs are taxes on imported goods and not related to property ownership. Fines are monetary penalties that businesses must pay. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-EC-072—Pay Your Share (Business Taxes)

21. Anita has just started her own small business. Any profits she earns will be subject to __________ taxes. 
A. sales
B. income
C. excise
D. payroll

21. B
Income. Income taxes are a portion of an individual's or business's earnings owed to the government. Any business profits will be taxed by income taxes. A payroll tax is a tax on employment, paid by both employers and employees. Sales tax is a tax on retail purchases. Excise taxes are taxes on products such as gasoline and alcohol; they are built into the product’s overall price. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-EC-072—Pay Your Share (Business Taxes)
2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 6 

22. Which of the following investments has the highest amount of risk: 
A. Bonds
B. Real estate
C. Stock mutual funds
D. Collectibles

22. D
Collectibles. Collectibles are items that gain or lose value over time. Collectibles can include antiques, gems, stamps, dolls, and sports memorabilia. Collectibles have high risk because you might not be able to sell the item at all—let alone for more money than you’ve paid for it. You have to be sure the item is important to other people, not just you. And, you have to be sure that the item will be more important to other people in the future. It’s impossible to be absolutely certain of either one of these two things. Real estate and mutual funds are considered moderate risk. Real estate is an ownership investment in which individuals purchase property in buildings and land. Mutual funds are ownership investments in which a variety of stocks from different corporations or agencies (usually from different industries) are combined into one investment. Bonds (lending investments in which individuals lend money to a government, municipality, or corporation to earn a set rate of interest for a specified time period) are considered low risk. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-FI-077—Invest for Success (Types of Investments)

23. Lenders charge higher interest rates on unsecured loans than on secured loans because unsecured loans 
A. are based on the borrower's creditworthiness.
B. have lower monthly payments than secured loans.
C. have collateral backing.
D. pose less risk to the lender.

23. A
Are based on the borrower's creditworthiness. An unsecured loan is an amount of money borrowed by an individual or a business simply by signing a promissory note promising to repay the loan. Because of this, unsecured loans are based on the borrower's creditworthiness and promise to repay, making it a bigger risk to the lender than secured loans. A secured loan is a type of loan in which the borrower pledges to the lender some valuable possession as collateral, or security, to guarantee that the loan will be repaid. Secured loans have collateral backing, whereas unsecured loans do not. Because interest rates are typically lower on secured loans, the monthly payments can be slightly lower than those of unsecured loans. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Majaski, C. (2023, December 14). Secured debt vs. unsecured debt: What's the difference?
Retrieved February 5, 2024, from https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/110614/whatdifference-between-secured-and-unsecured-debts.asp 

24. Before selecting investments, Jasper asks himself how long he plans to stay invested. This is known as Jasper’s 
A. liquidity need.
B. risk tolerance.
C. level of competition.
D. time horizon.

24. D
Time horizon. By asking himself how long he plans to stay invested, Jasper is considering his time horizon. The longer he invests his money, the more time Jasper’s money has to grow. Risk tolerance is a measure of how much risk an investor is willing to accept in exchange for potentially high returns. Liquidity is the ability to be converted into cash. Level of competition is not related to the length of time for staying invested. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 12
SOURCE: Fidelity Smart Money. (2022, April 7). 4 steps to picking your investments. Retrieved February 5,
2024, from https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center/smart-money/how-to-pick-investments 

25. To make an informed consumer decision, you should conduct research and consult __________ sources of information. 
A. professional
B. persuasive
C. reliable
D. digital

25. C
Reliable. If you need more information to make an informed consumer decision, conduct some research. Review reliable sources of information. If you are buying a new computer, for instance, Dell’s online store and the Apple store can both provide detailed information about their products. However, other sources that evaluate both types of products, such as a consumer guide, may offer more unbiased reviews. Professional and persuasive sources of information are not always unbiased. Solid sources of information do not always have to be digital—it’s also a good idea to consult with other people who have knowledge or experience. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-EI-091—Worth the Risk (Assessing Risks of Personal Decisions)
2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 7 

26. Michael has just retired from his longtime job. His company has provided him a retirement fund that has been paid into for the duration of his career. This fund is paid for completely by his company and is paid out at a fixed monthly rate. Michael has received a 
A. private checking account.
B. pension.
C. 401(k).
D. college savings account.

26. B
Pension. A pension is a retirement fund that has been paid into by an employer. Pensions offer a fixed monthly payment upon retirement. A 401(k) is paid into by both the employee and employer, and is less stable than a pension. A college savings account, which is an investment vehicle used to save funds for college, is not a source of retirement income. A private checking account is typically not provided by a company and is not a source of retirement income. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: FINRA. (2024). Sources of retirement income. Retrieved February 6, 2024, from
https://www.finra.org/investors/learn-to-invest/types-investments/retirement/managing-retirementincome/sources-retirement-income 

27. When using mobile payment apps such as Venmo, Apple Pay, and PayPal, it is important to 
A. collect at least $100 before transferring to your bank.
B. use them the same way you use your checking account.
C. keep money in your app to gain interest.
D. regularly transfer money in your app to your bank.

27. D
Regularly transfer money in your app to your bank. When using mobile payment apps such as Venmo, Apple Pay, and PayPal, it is important to regularly transfer money in your app to your bank. Rather than allowing the money you have in the app to stay in the app, you should transfer those funds back to your account at a bank or a credit union as soon as possible. Funds in these apps aren't insured while in the app, and these apps do not offer the same protections on funds that banks or credit unions do. Money in a mobile payment app does not gain interest. If you're looking to gain interest on those funds, you should transfer them to a savings account. You should not use these apps the same way you use your checking account. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: Dupaco Community Credit Union. (2023, September 1). Why you should stop using payment apps to
store cash. Retrieved February 6, 2024, from https://www.dupaco.com/2023/09/01/why-you-shouldstop-using-payment-apps-to-store-cash 

28. Gale would like to invest in a lower risk mutual fund. What type of mutual fund should he put money into? 
A. Equity fund
B. Hybrid fund
C. Money market fund
D. Stock fund

28. C
Money market fund. A money market fund is a pool of shareholders' money that is invested in securities over a short amount of time. They are low risk because of the short time frame. A stock fund, also known as an equity fund, is a pool of shareholders' money invested in different types of stocks. Because stock markets can be volatile, stock funds also carry greater risk. A hybrid fund, which is a mixture of stocks and bonds, is lower risk because of the diversification of the fund. However, it still carries some risk due to persistent volatility in the stock market. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 12
SOURCE: Donovan, W. (2022, April 10). The 4 types of mutual funds. Retrieved February 8, 2024,
from https://www.thebalance.com/the-three-general-types-of-mutual-funds-3025628 

29. Which of the following best describes a private student loan: 
A. It is funded by the federal government.
B. It typically requires payments while still in school.
C. It doesn't require payment until after graduation.
D. It can be consolidated into a Direct Consolidation Loan.

29. B
It typically requires payments while still in school. A private student loan is a nonfederal loan made by a lender, such as a bank, credit union, school, or state agency. A federal student loan is a loan that is funded by the federal government. Where private loans typically require payments while the student is still in school, federal student loans aren't due until after graduation. Federal student loans can be consolidated into a Direct Consolidation Loan, whereas private student loans cannot. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Federal Student Aid. (n.d.). Federal versus private loans. Retrieved February 5, 2024,
from https://studentaid.gov/understand-aid/types/loans/federal-vs-private 2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 8 

30. Even though Neil’s paycheck came through today, it isn’t enough to pay off both his credit card debt and his student loan. To be fiscally responsible and avoid paying as much interest as possible, should Neil pay off his credit card debt or make a student loan payment? 
A. His student loan, because it'll strengthen his credit score more than paying the credit card will.
B. His credit card, because credit cards usually have higher interest rates than student loans.
C. His credit card, because student loans typically don't have interest rates.
D. His student loan, because student loans commonly have higher interest rates than credit cards.

30. B
His credit card, because credit cards usually have higher interest rates than student loans. In this scenario, Neil should pay off his credit card debt first because interest rates on credit cards are higher than on loans. Although student loans typically have interest rates, they are not as high as the interest rates for credit cards. If Neil prioritizes paying off his credit card, he'll save money on interest and potentially improve his credit score. Paying down credit card debt decreases credit utilization, which is one of the biggest contributing factors to credit scores. Although paying loans on time will also strengthen Neil's credit, it won't strengthen it as much as paying down his credit card debt. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: McGurran, B. (2023, July 7). Should I pay off credit card or loan debt first? Retrieved February 5,
2024, from https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/should-i-pay-off-credit-card-or-loan-debtfirst 

31. Individuals often authorize __________ to help manage their financial assets. 
A. economists
B. therapists
C. marketers
D. fiduciaries

31. D
Fiduciaries. Individuals often authorize fiduciaries to help manage financial assets. The fiduciary is responsible for caring for another person's assets and making the decisions regarding an individual's assets. An example of a fiduciary would be a trusted financial advisor such as an accountant, attorney, or insurance agent. An economist is a person who studies how countries and individuals make economic decisions. Therapists can help individuals understand and cope with emotional problems and skills, but they are not used for financial decisions. Marketers create and communicate value to customers about products and services. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 12
SOURCE: Cummings & Lockwood LLC. (2017). Choosing fiduciaries to handle your estate. Retrieved February
8, 2024, from https://www.cl-law.com/news-events/choosing-fiduciaries-to-handle-your-estate 

32. Business and worker production is likely to decrease during an economic 
A. upturn.
B. peak.
C. recession.
D. expansion.

32. C
Recession. A recession is a periodic economic contraction during which trade and economic activity are reduced, usually identified by a fall in GDP for at least two successive quarters. Expansions are periods of time in the business cycle when production and employment increase, leading to a peak, which is the top of the business cycle. An economic upturn would involve increased production, not decreased. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-EC-918—Boom or Bust (Impact of Business Cycles)

33. Zion is enrolled in long-term disability insurance, but he must wait 30 days from the date of his disabling event before receiving benefits. What is this waiting time called? 
A. Affiliation time
B. Reservation
C. Validation cycle
D. Elimination period

33. D
Elimination period. For short- and long-term disability insurance, there is an elimination period, also called a waiting or qualifying period, which is the amount of time an individual needs to wait before receiving benefits. These periods range from seven days for short-term disability and from 30 days to two years for long-term disability. Affiliation time, reservation, and validation cycle are not common terms in disability insurance. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Hurst, A. (2023, November 21). What are elimination periods in disability insurance? Retrieved
February 5, 2024, from https://www.policygenius.com/disability-insurance/disability-insuranceelimination-periods/ 

34. Managers can motivate employees to be more productive by 
A. developing automated systems.
B. ignoring employee feedback.
C. standardizing tasks.
D. offering flexible work hours.

34. D
Offering flexible work hours. Offering flexible work hours will give employees more control over their work schedules and allow them to maintain a healthier work-life balance. This will improve morale and productivity. Some businesses develop automated systems and find ways to standardize tasks to increase productivity, but these factors are not related to motivating employees. Employees who feel that their feedback has been taken seriously are more likely to be more motivated; therefore, ignoring their feedback will not improve productivity. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-EC-018—Make the Most of It (Productivity)
2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 9 

35. Pre-purchase research can help limit impulse buying because it places you in a(n) __________ rather than __________ state. 
A. decisive; indecisive
B. emotional; logical
C. indecisive; decisive
D. logical; emotional

35. D
Logical; emotional. Impulse buying involves making an on-the-spot purchasing decision. Impulse buying often results from your physical and emotional condition. When people are sick, tired, or hungry, they often make impulsive, emotional decisions because they don’t have the willpower or energy to think carefully or logically. Conducting research before making a purchase can help you think logically and make a purchasing decision that makes most sense for you, rather than one based on emotion. Research does not necessarily make you more or less decisive. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: Capital One. (2023, October 17). Impulse buying: What it is and how to avoid it. Retrieved February
5, 2023, from https://www.capitalone.com/learn-grow/money-management/impulse-buying/ 

36. The first step of applying for student loans is to 
A. compare financial aid offers.
B. complete the FAFSA.
C. consider private loans.
D. choose your school.

36. B
Complete the FAFSA. The first step in applying for student loans is to complete the FAFSA, or the government's Free Application for Federal Student Aid. Once the FAFSA is complete, the financial aid offices at colleges you've applied to will use the information from your FAFSA to determine how much aid to make available to you. This is done by subtracting your estimated family contribution from the school's cost of attendance (which includes tuition, room and board, etc.). Once schools offer you their aid packages, it is important to compare them. If you need to borrow more money than federal student loans can provide, then you will consider private loans from a bank, credit union, or another financial institution. Once you do all of this, then the final step is to choose your school. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Epstein, L. (2023, September 5). How to apply for student loans. Retrieved February 5, 2024,
from https://www.investopedia.com/articles/personal-finance/091515/beginners-guide-studentloans.asp 

37. Which of the following is a drawback of investing: 
A. There isn’t a learning curve.
B. Returns are low, so you might lose purchasing power over time.
C. Investing products are usually very liquid.
D. Returns are not guaranteed.

37. D
Returns are not guaranteed. One drawback of investing is that returns aren’t guaranteed, and investors typically lose money in the short term. A benefit of investing is that investing products like stocks, bonds, and ETFs can be converted into cash easily, or are very liquid. There is a learning curve when it comes to investing, and you will likely need to research beforehand. Low returns and losing purchasing power over time is a drawback of saving. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 12
SOURCE: Royal, J. (2023, November 17). Saving vs. investing: How are they different and which is better?
Retrieved February 5, 2024, from https://www.bankrate.com/investing/saving-vs-investing/ 

38. Which of the following is an advantage of investing in bonds: 
A. They are insured by the FDIC.
B. You can access your money whenever you want.
C. They offer high rates of return.
D. They are very low risk.

38. D
They are very low risk. Bonds are offered by a government, municipality, or corporation at a set interest rate for a particular time period. Bonds are very low-risk investments. In general, bonds are considered to be guaranteed money. However, you cannot access your money whenever you want, and they aren’t FDICinsured. Because bonds are low risk, they don’t offer high rates of return. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-FI-077—Invest for Success (Types of Investments)
2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 10 

39. When donating to charity, it’s important to visit each organization’s website. The organization should demonstrate __________ by providing information about its mission, financials, and impact. 
A. transparency
B. fairness
C. respect
D. pride

39. A
Transparency. One of the first steps of charitable giving is to conduct research on the intended organization. Part of this research should involve visiting the organization’s website to make sure you’re making the impact you intend to. Reputable organizations should be transparent—the quality of being trustworthy and just as one seems—by providing information about their mission, values, financials, programs, impact, and more. Respect involves honoring the rights, freedoms, views, and property of others. Fairness is the ability to make judgments and act without favoritism or self-interest. Pride is a feeling of satisfaction from one’s own accomplishments. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: Saint Paul & Minnesota Foundation. (2024). Five tips for researching nonprofit organizations to
support. Retrieved February 5, 2024, from https://spmcf.org/blog/nonprofit-giving-research-tips 

40. Subsidized loans are different than unsubsidized loans because unsubsidized loans 
A. do not require students to demonstrate financial need.
B. typically offer lower loan limits than subsidized loans.
C. are only available to undergraduate students with financial need.
D. do not accrue interest until the student leaves school.

40. A
Do not require students to demonstrate financial need. Federal direct loans can be subsidized or unsubsidized. While both types of loans offer flexible repayment options, the option to consolidate, low interest rates, and forbearance and deferment options, there are some key differences between the two. Namely, subsidized loans are based on the borrower's financial needs, whereas unsubsidized loans do not require students to demonstrate financial need. Subsidized loans are only available to undergraduate students with financial need, while unsubsidized loans are available to both undergraduate and graduate students. With subsidized loans, interest doesn't accrue until the student leaves school. Interest accrues from the time of disbursement with unsubsidized loans. Subsidized loans typically offer lower loan limits than unsubsidized loans. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Lake, R. (2023, September 2). Subsidized vs. unsubsidized student loans: Which is best? Retrieved
February 5, 2024, from https://www.investopedia.com/personal-finance/federal-direct-loanssubsidized-vs-unsubsidized 

41. There is a significant difference between the value of Mayim’s car and the amount she owes on it. Mayim should purchase __________ to protect herself from the car’s depreciation. 
A. roadside assistance
B. gap insurance
C. liability insurance
D. uninsured motorist coverage

41. B
Gap insurance. Gap insurance covers the difference between the value of Mayim’s car and the amount she still owes on her loan. A car’s value starts to decrease after it’s purchased, which is known as depreciation. Gap insurance covers the difference and will help Mayim recover a greater value if her car is stolen or totaled. While uninsured motorist coverage, liability insurance, and roadside assistance are useful forms of insurance, they would not help protect Mayim from the depreciation of her car. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Progressive. (2023, September 21). What is gap insurance? Retrieved February 5, 2024,
from https://www.progressive.com/answers/gap-insurance/ 

42. If your landlord’s apartment building burns down, what type of insurance would cover your personal belongings? 
A. Flood insurance
B. Property insurance
C. Renter’s insurance
D. Homeowner’s insurance

42. C
Renter’s insurance. If your apartment burns down, renter’s insurance would cover your personal property. Your landlord’s property insurance only covers losses to the building itself, not your personal belongings. Flood insurance would not be particularly helpful in case of an apartment fire. Homeowner’s insurance would apply if you owned the apartment instead of renting it. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Folger, J. (2023, August 6). 6 good reasons to get renter’s insurance. Retrieved February 2, 2024,
from https://www.investopedia.com/articles/personal-finance/082714/6-good-reasons-get-rentersinsurance.asp 2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 11 

43. What is the best way to protect against identity theft? 
A. Asking the post office to hold your mail while you’re on vacation
B. Sharing private information with friends and family on social media
C. Reusing the same password across multiple platforms
D. Keeping your Social Security card in your purse or wallet for easy access

43. A
Asking the post office to hold your mail while you’re on vacation. While it’s not always possible to completely protect yourself from identity thieves, there are several practices that can help keep your information safe. Reviewing your financial statements regularly and asking the post office to hold your mail while you’re on vacation are two methods. Reusing the same password across platforms makes it easy for people to hack into your accounts. Social media isn’t private, so you should avoid oversharing online. Purses and wallets can be stolen, so it’s best to keep your Social Security card in a safe place at home. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Equifax. (2024). How can I better protect against identity theft? Retrieved February 5, 2024,
from https://www.equifax.com/personal/education/identity-theft/articles/-/learn/how-to-protectagainst-identity-theft/ 

44. If Antonio wants to follow the "pay yourself first" method, what should he do when he receives his paycheck? 
A. Buy himself the gaming system he wants
B. Set aside money for his savings account
C. Pay his monthly rent
D. Make a payment on his car

44. B
Set aside money for his savings account. The "pay yourself first" method encourages setting aside money for things like savings and retirement before paying bills and making other purchases. So if Antonio wants to follow the "pay yourself first" method, he will transfer some of his check to his savings account before paying his rent and making a payment on his car. It is important to note that Antonio should still keep up with his debt obligations. After he puts some money into his savings, he should make sure he has enough left over to pay his debts (rent, car, credit card, loans, etc.). Antonio should buy himself a gaming system only if he can afford it after moving some money to his savings and paying off his debt. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: Capital One. (2023, March 14). Pay yourself first: What it means and how to do it. Retrieved
February 7, 2024, from https://www.capitalone.com/learn-grow/money-management/pay-yourselffirst 

45. A key difference between value stocks and growth stocks is that growth stocks 
A. are relatively stable with low volatility.
B. are priced higher than the broader market.
C. tend to be undervalued.
D. have high dividend yields.

45. B
Are priced higher than the broader market. Growth stocks are stocks of companies that have high potential to outperform the overall market over time due to their future potential. Value stocks are stocks currently trading below what they are really worth, meaning they will provide a superior return. Growth stocks are typically overvalued, meaning they are priced higher than the broader market. Value stocks tend to be undervalued, meaning they are priced lower than the broader market. Growth stocks are high risk with more volatility, while value stocks are relatively stable with low volatility. Growth stocks have low or no dividend yields, while value stocks have high dividend yields. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 12
SOURCE: Cussen, M.P. (2023, July 27). Value or growth stocks: Which is better? Retrieved February 8, 2024,
from https://www.investopedia.com/articles/professionals/072415/value-or-growth-stocks-whichbest.asp#toc-value-vs-growth-stocks-key-differences 

46. High or unexpected inflation can 
A. discourage people from investing.
B. lead to higher wages for employees.
C. increase overall consumer spending.
D. encourage people to save.

46. A
Discourage people from investing. Inflation is a steady increase in the general price levels of consumer goods and services over a period of time. Inflation isn't a bad thing for the economy, but high or unexpected inflation can be. High or unexpected inflation can discourage people from saving or investing, decrease overall consumer spending, reduce the standard of living, and even cause shortages of goods. In addition, if inflation is too high or unexpected, it may be difficult for companies to increase employees’ wages quickly enough to keep pace. When wage increases can’t keep up with price increases, consumer spending will go down, potentially stalling the economy. Encouraging people to save, increasing overall consumer spending, and leading to higher wages for employees are not typical results of high or unexpected inflation. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-EC-083—Up, Up, and Away (Inflation)
2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 12 

47. Which of the following investing activities would generate a negative cash flow: 
A. Sale of investment securities
B. Lending money
C. Sale of fixed assets
D. Collection of insurance proceeds

47. B
Lending money. Cash flows from investing activities show an account of cash used in the purchase of noncurrent assets (or long-term assets) that will deliver value in the future. Negative cash flow means that more money is flowing out of an organization than coming in. Investing activities such as lending money, buying fixed assets, or purchasing investments, like stocks or securities, would generate a negative cash flow. Positive cash flow means that more money is coming into an organization than going out. A sale of investment securities, a sale of fixed assets, and a collection of insurance proceeds would generate a positive cash flow. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 12
SOURCE: Kenton, W. (2022, June 30). Cash flow from investing activities explained: Types and examples.
Retrieved February 8, 2024, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/c/cashflowfinvestingactivities.asp 

48. Hasan accidentally hits a mailbox on his drive to school. Which type of insurance would likely cover the repair costs? 
A. Comprehensive insurance
B. Gap insurance
C. Property damage liability insurance
D. Personal injury protection insurance

48. C
Property damage liability insurance. Property damage liability insurance covers repair costs to buildings, vehicles, fences, or mailboxes in an accident. Personal injury protection insurance, sometimes called no-fault insurance, covers medical expenses no matter whose fault the accident was. If Hasan’s car was damaged by storms, falling objects, or anything other than an accident, then comprehensive insurance would cover the repair cost. Gap insurance covers the difference between the car’s worth and the amount Hasan owes on the loan. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Gula, D. (2023, June 8). The 8 key types of car insurance. Retrieved February 5, 2024, from
https://www.nerdwallet.com/article/insurance/types-of-car-insurance 

49. Checking accounts are different than savings accounts because checking accounts 
A. are better for storing money.
B. are generally used for everyday spending.
C. typically earn more interest.
D. typically have withdrawal limits.

49. B
Are generally used for everyday spending. A checking account is an account held at a financial institution that allows deposits and withdrawals. Checking accounts are generally used for everyday spending and are better for regular transactions, such as bill payments, ATM withdrawals, and purchases. Savings accounts, on the other hand, are primarily used for storing and growing money. Checking accounts typically have no withdrawal limits, while savings accounts often have monthly limits on how often you can withdraw without paying a fee. Checking accounts typically earn less interest than savings accounts, and sometimes they don't earn any interest. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: Burnette, M. (2024, January 9). Checking vs. savings account: The difference and how to choose.
Retrieved February 6, 2024, from https://www.nerdwallet.com/article/banking/checking-vs-savings 

50. Having a system for financial record-keeping makes it easier to make financial decisions because 
A. you can access needed information quickly and easily.
B. it helps you memorize all of your financial data.
C. you can automatically share your information with others.
D. it is required by both state and federal law.

50. A
You can access needed information quickly and easily. Having a system for financial record-keeping can make it easier to make financial decisions because you can access needed information quickly and easily. Financial decision-making often requires a thorough knowledge of your current (and past) financial state. Being able to access whatever information you need quickly and easily is crucial to making a smart financial decision. A financial record-keeping system does not necessarily help you memorize financial data or automatically share info with others (nor would these actions be helpful for decision-making). A system of financial record-keeping is not required by state or federal law. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: Love, C. (2021). Maintaining your financial records: The importance of being organized. Retrieved
February 5, 2024, from https://www.cnbank.com/Your_Bank/Education_and_Advice/CNBU_Articles/ Maintaining_Your_Financial_Records__The_Importance_of_Being_Organized/ 2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 13 

51. If an individual is looking to change careers, master new technology, or pursue a promotion, which of the following actions would be most effective in helping them achieve that goal: 
A. Discrediting their coworkers
B. Continuing their education
C. Learning an unrelated skill
D. Contacting former employers

51. B
Continuing their education. Workers who want to advance in or keep up with their chosen professions often need to obtain additional, ongoing education. There are many ways for workers to acquire job-related skills, such as taking online or in-person classes or participating in a worker training program. Learning an unrelated skill, discrediting coworkers, or contacting former employers would not be useful actions when looking to change careers, master new technology, or pursue a promotion. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: Laman, B. (2023, May 9). Community colleges' essential role in workforce development. Retrieved
February 5, 2024, from https://timelycare.com/blog/community-colleges-essential-role-in-workforcedevelopment/ 

52. Which of the following is true of an investor with a high risk tolerance: 
A. They seek investments with guaranteed returns.
B. They are conservative with their investing choices.
C. They want to grow their money without losing too much.
D. They are willing to risk more money for unknown returns.

52. D
They are willing to risk more money for unknown returns. Risk tolerance is a measure of how much risk an investor is willing to accept in exchange for potentially high returns. Someone who has a high risk tolerance is considered an aggressive investor, as they are willing to risk more money for the possibility of better, yet unknown, returns. Someone with a low risk tolerance is a conservative investor, as they seek investments with guaranteed returns. Someone with a moderate risk tolerance wants to grow their money without losing too much. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 12
SOURCE: Twin, A. (2022, July 7). What is risk tolerance, and why does it matter? Retrieved February 7, 2024,
from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/r/risktolerance.asp 

53. Nominal interest rates are different than real interest rates because real interest rates 
A. are used more by investors and analysts.
B. equal nominal interest rate plus inflation.
C. indicate current market and economic conditions.
D. are typically used by borrowers and lenders.

53. A
Are used more by investors and analysts. Interest rates represent the cost of borrowing or the return on saving and investing, and are expressed as a percentage of the total amount of an investment or a loan. Interest rates can be expressed in nominal or real terms. Nominal interest rates refer to the total of the real interest rate plus a projected rate of inflation. Real interest rates provide the actual return on a loan to the lender and on a bond to the investor. Real interest rates are used more by investors and analysts, while nominal interest rates are used more by borrowers and lenders. Real interest rates are calculated by subtracting the actual or expected rate of inflation from the nominal interest rate. Nominal interest rates equal real interest rate plus inflation. Nominal interest rates indicate current market and economic conditions, while real interest rates represent the purchasing power of investors. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 12
SOURCE: Nickolas, S. (2023, September 27). Nominal vs. real interest rate: What's the difference? Retrieved
February 8, 2024, from https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/032515/what-differencebetween-real-and-nominal-interest-rates.asp 

54. Mason is seeking a non-tax-deferred retirement plan. What retirement plan should Mason pursue? 
A. Traditional IRA
B. 403(B)
C. Roth IRA
D. 401(k)

54. C
Roth IRA. A Roth IRA is a non-tax-deferred retirement plan in which contributions are made with after-tax income, but investors avoid capital gains taxes and owe no money at the time of withdrawal. Traditional IRA, 401(k), and 403(B) plans are all tax-deferred retirement plans, meaning that employees put their earned income into their plans before taxes are deducted. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (2024). Roth IRA vs. traditional IRA. Retrieved February 5, 2024, from
https://www.schwab.com/ira/roth-vs-traditional-ira 2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 14 

55. If a couple wants to combine their finances, what is the first thing they should do? 
A. Create a joint savings or investment account
B. Have an open and honest conversation about finances
C. Prepare a budget together
D. Identify shared financial goals

55. B
Have an open and honest conversation about finances. If a couple wants to combine their finances, the first thing they should do is to have an open and honest conversation about their financial situations. In this conversation, the couple should discuss their income, expenses, debts, financial obligations, goals, and aspirations. Once a couple has this conversation, they can then identify their shared goals and prioritize those goals. Then, the couple should prepare a budget to keep them on track with their financial goals. After all of this, the couple should create a joint savings or investment account. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: Monarch. (2023, October 16). The power of shared goals: The importance of a joint financial
roadmap. Retrieved February 7, 2024, from https://www.monarchmoney.com/blog/the-power-ofshared-goals-the-importance-of-a-joint-financial-roadmap 

56. Roman and Sam want to set aside money that will allow their daughter to pay for college in the future. What type of savings plan should they look into? 
A. Traditional IRA
B. Unsubsidized student loan
C. Roth IRA
D. 529 plan

56. D
529 plan. If Roman and Sam want to set aside money that will allow their daughter to pay for college in the future, they should look into a 529 plan. A 529 plan is tax-advantaged savings plan designed to help you save and grow money for educational purposes, such as saving for college. A traditional IRA is an Individual Retirement Account where you contribute pre-tax dollars. A Roth IRA is an Individual Retirement Account where you contribute after-tax dollars. Although unsubsidized student loans are often used to pay for college, it is not considered a savings plan. Unsubsidized loans are not based on financial need and are charged interest from the time of disbursement. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: Ramsey. (2024, January 4). ESA vs. 529: Which is better for you? Retrieved February 7, 2024, from
https://www.ramseysolutions.com/retirement/esa-529-comparison 

57. Pooja wants to ensure she can receive part of her life insurance policy’s death benefit if she develops a terminal illness—this way, she’ll be able to pay for medical treatments. Which life insurance rider should she pursue? 
A. Accidental death rider
B. Child term rider
C. Waiver of premium rider
D. Accelerated death benefit rider

57. D
Accelerated death benefit rider. Insurance riders provide additional benefits that aren’t already covered by one’s life insurance policy. The accelerated death benefit rider allows Pooja to access her policy’s death benefit if she develops a terminal illness. Qualified events include terminal illness diagnosis, organ transplants, and a permanent move to a nursing home. A child term rider would allow Pooja to cover her children instead of buying separate policies. The waiver of premium rider would pay her life insurance premiums if Pooja became disabled and couldn’t work. The accidental death rider increases the payout to Pooja’s beneficiaries if she dies from a covered accident. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Moore, B. (2021, July 6). Life insurance riders: What you need to know. Retrieved February 5, 2024,
from https://www.nerdwallet.com/article/insurance/life-insurance-riders 

58. Khadija invested in __________, which gives her voting rights at one vote per share. 
A. dividends
B. cryptocurrency
C. preferred stock
D. common stock

58. D
Common stock. Common stock gives voting rights, typically at one vote per share. Stockholders have a say in electing board members to oversee managerial decisions at the company. Preferred stock also represents ownership in a company but does not confer voting rights. Dividends are sums of money paid to an investor or stockholder as earnings on an investment. Khadija cannot invest in dividends. Cryptocurrency is a digital currency used as an alternative payment method. Khadija did not invest in dividends, preferred stock, or cryptocurrency in this example. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 12
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2023, December 24). Preferred vs. common stock: What’s the difference? Retrieved
February 5, 2024, from https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/difference-between-preferredstock-and-common-stock/ 2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 15 

59. The upper-class citizens in the country of Aldiminia pay a higher income tax rate than the middle and lower classes. Aldiminia has a __________ tax structure. 
A. regressive
B. repetitive
C. progressive
D. proportional

59. C
Progressive. A progressive tax structure is one in which those who earn more are required to pay a higher percentage of their income in taxes. In other words, as the income increases, the tax rate also increases. If using a regressive tax structure, people who earn more income pay a lower percentage of income in taxes. As income increases, the tax rate decreases. A proportional tax structure is one in which everyone pays the same percentage of income in taxes, regardless of income level. Repetitive is not a type of tax structure. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-EC-072—Pay Your Share (Business Taxes)

60. Troy has caused several car accidents, while Marjorie is a safe driver. Troy’s insurance premium will likely be __________ Marjorie’s. 
A. more accurate than
B. the same as
C. lower than
D. higher than

60. D
Higher than. Insurance companies determine premium costs based on a driver’s risk. Because Troy has caused several accidents, insurance companies view him as a higher risk and will likely increase his premiums. Marjorie’s insurance premium is likely lower than Troy’s. There is no reason to believe Troy’s premium is more accurate than Marjorie’s—both should be accurate. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Kim, G. (2023, October 18). How much will my car insurance go up after an accident? Retrieved
February 2, 2024, from https://www.bankrate.com/insurance/car/rates-after-an-accident/ 

61. Which of the following statements about an opt-out retirement plan is true: 
A. Employers are required to offer a matching contribution.
B. Opt-out plans tend to decrease employee participation rates.
C. Eligible employees are automatically enrolled.
D. Employees cannot change their contribution percentages.

61. C
Eligible employees are automatically enrolled. An opt-out retirement plan is an employer-sponsored retirement savings plan that automatically enrolls all employees into the company's retirement savings plan, such as a 401(k) or SIMPLE IRA. Employees have the power to change their contribution percentages, opt-out of the plan entirely, and change the investments their money goes into. While many companies offer matching contributions as part of their 401(k) plans, they are not required by law to do so. Opt-out plans tend to increase (not decrease) employee participation rates. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: Kagan, J. (2021, August 10). Opt-out plan: What it is, how it works, pros and cons. Retrieved
February 7, 2024, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/o/opt-out-plan.asp 

62. Many not-for-profit organizations like colleges and universities pool and invest donor money in which of the following: 
A. Endowment funds
B. Real estate
C. Money market accounts
D. Stocks

62. A
Endowment funds. Sometimes, businesses invest money that isn’t their own. A common example is a nonprofit organization’s endowment fund. Funds obtained from donors are pooled together and invested to create additional income. Many colleges and universities have endowment funds. Nonprofit organizations do not typically pool and invest donor money in real estate, stocks, or money market accounts. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-FI-077—Invest for Success (Types of Investments)

63. Which of the following statements about the relationship between interest rates and the supply and demand of credit is true: 
A. An increase in the supply of credit will increase interest rates.
B. An increase in the demand for credit will raise interest rates.
C. A decrease in the supply of credit will reduce interest rates.
D. A decrease in the demand for credit will raise interest rates.

63. B
An increase in the demand for credit will raise interest rates. Interest rate levels are a key factor in the supply and demand of credit. Generally, an increase in the demand for credit will raise interest rates. Additionally, a decrease in the demand for credit will decrease (not raise) interest rates. In terms of the supply of credit, an increase in the supply of credit will reduce (not increase) interest rates. A decrease in the supply of credit will increase (not reduce) interest rates. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: Heakal, R. (2022, March 28). Forces that cause changes in interest rates. Retrieved February 6,
2024, from https://www.investopedia.com/insights/forces-behind-interest-rates 2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 16 

64. Which of the following is a fixed expense: 
A. Weekly groceries
B. Monthly rent
C. Car repair bill
D. Annual salary

64. B
Monthly rent. Budgets often include both fixed and variable expenses. Fixed expenses are those that remain constant (i.e., “fixed”) over time and do not fluctuate. Examples of fixed expenses include a monthly rent or mortgage, car payments, phone bills, and gym memberships. Variable expenses are the opposite—they can fluctuate (i.e., “vary”) regularly. Examples of variable expenses include what you spend on car repairs or weekly groceries. An annual salary is not an expense. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: Bennet, K. (2023, November 3). What’s the difference between fixed and variable expenses?
Retrieved February 5, 2024, from https://www.bankrate.com/banking/fixed-expenses-vs-variableexpenses/ 

65. Which of the following is a type of collateral typically required for a mortgage loan: 
A. Car
B. Jewelry
C. Retirement accounts
D. House

65. D
House. A mortgage loan is an agreement between the borrower and a lender used to purchase or maintain a home, plot of land, or other types of real estate. If the borrower fails to repay the money they borrow plus interest, the lender has the right to take the property away from the borrower. Because of this, the property or home itself serves as collateral for a mortgage loan. Although a car and jewelry can serve as forms of collateral, they are not typically required for a mortgage loan. Retirement accounts are not usually accepted as collateral. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Kagan, J. (2023, April 28). Collateral definition, types, & examples. Retrieved February 5, 2024, from
https://www.investopedia.com/terms/c/collateral.asp 

66. Which of the following statements about completing the FAFSA is true: 
A. It requires a small fee to complete.
B. It typically only applies to low-income households.
C. It needs to be completed once for a four-year degree.
D. It is a requirement to receive federal financial aid.

66. D
It is a requirement to receive federal financial aid. The FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid) is the form that one must complete to receive any financial aid from the federal government to help pay for college. Simply put, if a student wants to receive federal financial aid, they (often with the assistance of a parent or guardian) need fill out the FAFSA. The FAFSA needs to be completed before each academic year, not just once for a four-year degree. The FAFSA is free to complete. Anyone planning on going to college, no matter their financial situation, should fill out the FAFSA. A household does not need to be a low-income household to qualify for financial aid; any household could be eligible for aid. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: College Board. (2019, February 15). What is the FAFSA? Retrieved February 5, 2024, from
https://blog.collegeboard.org/what-is-the-fafsa 

67. Which of the following factors can impact the interest rate for a loan: 
A. Marital status
B. Credit score
C. Political affiliation
D. Medical history

67. B
Credit score. An interest rate is the amount a lender charges a borrower for use of the money. Interest rates are expressed as a percentage of the principal loan amount. There are many factors that can impact the interest rate for a loan, including the borrower's credit score, income, debt-to-income ratio, and repayment history, as well as the loan type, loan amount, and loan term. The borrower's marital status, political affiliation, and medical history are not factors that can impact the interest rate for a loan. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Shea, N. (2017, September 29). Seven factors that determine your mortgage interest rate. Retrieved
February 2, 2024, from https://www.consumerfinance.gov/about-us/blog/7-factors-determine-yourmortgage-interest-rate 2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 17 

68. When making a low-risk investment, you most likely have 
A. less to gain.
B. more at stake.
C. a lack of liquidity.
D. a higher chance of loss.

68. A
Less to gain. When making a low-risk investment, you most likely have less to gain. By nature, low-risk investing offers less to gain in terms of a bigger return. There is also less at stake with low-risk investing, as it serves as a way of protecting against any chance of loss. It also means making sure that none of the potential losses will be devastating. A high-risk investment is one where there is potentially more to gain, but there is a higher chance of loss or underperformance. Because of this, high-risk investments have more at stake than low-risk investments. High-risk investments tend to have a lack of liquidity, as they may be difficult to sell quickly if you need money or face an unexpected financial situation. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 12
SOURCE: Simpson, S.D. (2022, September 18). Low-risk vs. high-risk investments: What's the difference?
Retrieved February 8, 2024, from https://www.investopedia.com/financial-edge/0512/low-vs.-highrisk-investments-for-beginners.aspx 

69. Melissa has a secret bank account that she hides from her husband, Luke, due to his spending habits. This is known as financial 
A. infidelity.
B. transparency.
C. accounting.
D. modeling.

69. A
Infidelity. Financial infidelity is a situation where one partner hides finances or money habits from the other partner. Because Melissa is hiding a secret bank account from Luke, this is an example of financial infidelity. Financial transparency is when partners are open and honest with each other about their finances and money habits. Financial accounting is a type of accounting that involves preparing and reporting financial data to external users who are not directly involved in business operations. Financial modeling is the task of building an abstract representation of a real-world financial situation. This scenario does not demonstrate financial transparency, financial accounting, or financial modeling. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: Monarch. (2023, October 16). The power of shared goals: The importance of a joint financial
roadmap. Retrieved February 7, 2024, from https://www.monarchmoney.com/blog/the-power-ofshared-goals-the-importance-of-a-joint-financial-roadmap 

70. Which of the following is true of secured loans: 
A. They are finalized when the borrower signs a promissory note.
B. The borrower pledges some form of collateral to the lender.
C. They are made for shorter periods of time than unsecured loans.
D. They are made only for those with excellent credit ratings.

70. B
The borrower pledges some form of collateral to the lender. A secured loan is a type of loan in which the borrower pledges to the lender some valuable possession as collateral, or security, to guarantee that the loan will be repaid. If the borrower does not repay the loan, the item used as collateral will then belong to the lender. An unsecured loan is an amount of money borrowed by an individual or a business simply by signing a promissory note promising to repay the loan. Unsecured loans are usually made for shorter periods of time than secured loans and only to individuals or businesses with excellent credit ratings. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance)

71. Which of the following occurs when consumer demand and ability to buy is greater than supply, causing prices of goods and services to increase: 
A. Demand-pull inflation
B. Hyperinflation
C. Inflation targeting
D. Cost-push inflation

71. A
Demand-pull inflation. The popular view among economists is that inflation happens when the country’s overall money supply grows faster than the economy does. When the availability of money is too great, it creates a situation that economists refer to as “too much cash chasing too few goods.” Consumer demand (and ability to buy) is greater than supply, so prices go up. This situation is known as demand-pull inflation. Cost-push inflation occurs when commodities are limited, causing products to be more expensive to make (i.e., costs “push” inflation higher). Inflation targeting is when a government decides to pursue a specific inflation rate. Hyperinflation is high and/or unexpected inflation. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-EC-083—Up, Up, and Away (Inflation)
2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 18 

72. Kit is young, healthy, and makes a comfortable salary. Should they purchase health insurance? 
A. Yes, accidents are unpredictable.
B. No, health insurance leads to medical debt.
C. Yes, all their medical expenses will be covered.
D. No, they should invest the money in a 503(b).

72. A
Yes, accidents are unpredictable. Even if Kit is healthy today, something bad could happen to them tomorrow. Health insurance would provide a safety net in case of an accident. With health insurance, some of Kit’s medical expenses will be covered, but not all of them. Not having health insurance often contributes to medical debt. 503(b) is a designation for pharmacies that create large batches of medications. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Kissell, C. (2024, January 18). What happens if you don’t have health insurance? Retrieved
February 2, 2024, from https://www.forbes.com/advisor/health-insurance/what-happens-if-you-donthave-health-insurance/ 

73. Once Steve has been hired, Steve and his company must pay a tax on his employment. What type of tax is this called? 
A. Payroll tax
B. Property tax
C. Sales tax
D. Excise tax

73. A
Payroll tax. A payroll tax is a tax on employment, paid by both employers and employees. In the U.S., payroll taxes become trust funds for Social Security and Medicare. Excise taxes are taxes on products such as gasoline and alcohol; they are built into the product’s overall price. Property tax is a tax on property an individual or business owns, usually real estate. Sales tax is a tax on retail purchases. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-EC-072—Pay Your Share (Business Taxes)

74. When purchasing a durable good, consumers typically consider 
A. whether they can get a discount.
B. how appealing the product appears.
C. whether their neighbors own the product.
D. how long the product will last.

74. D
How long the product will last. Durable goods are tangible items that should last a long time, such as cars, furniture, appliances, lawn equipment, etc. When purchasing a durable good, consumers typically consider how long the product will last. Typically, durable goods are designed to last at least 3 years. While consumers can make purchasing decisions based on the appeal of the product, whether their neighbors own the product, or whether they can get a discount, these are not typically factors influencing the purchase of durable goods. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: Lisa, A. (2021, August 4). Durable goods spending and what it means for the economy. Retrieved
February 5, 2024, from https://www.gobankingrates.com/money/economy/economy-explained-whatis-durable-goods-spending-what-does-it-signify/ 

75. Which of the following would most likely decrease a business’s productivity: 
A. Increased government regulation
B. Task specialization
C. Increased research and development
D. Two-way communication

75. A
Increased government regulation. An increase in government regulation could reduce productivity because of the time required to comply. Increased research and development would improve productivity because businesses would be more likely to discover newer and better technologies, methods, and products. Task specialization is when employees narrow their focus to one area of expertise. This would likely increase productivity. Productivity is increased by two-way communication between management and workers. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-EC-018—Make the Most of It (Productivity)

76. Employee compensation is comprised of wages and 
A. taxes.
B. discounts.
C. promotions.
D. benefits.

76. D
Benefits. Employee compensation includes a combination of pay and benefits. The benefit package is important because it amounts to about one-third of total compensation. Discounts are considered a type of benefit, but they are not the sole benefit offered to employees. Taxes and promotions are not considered a form of employee compensation. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: Wooll, M. (2022, August 17). Compensation and benefits: Why the right pay and perks matter.
Retrieved February 6, 2024, from https://www.betterup.com/blog/compensation-and-benefits 2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 19 

77. Which of the following is an example of a lending investment: 
A. Land
B. Bonds
C. Collectibles
D. Stocks

77. B
Bonds. Lending investments allow someone to borrow your money for a period of time. In return, you earn a fee or interest on the amount that you lend. Examples of lending investments are savings accounts, certificates of deposit, and bonds. Ownership investments are those in which an individual purchases a portion or all of an item. Collectibles (e.g., coins and antiques), real estate (e.g., buildings and land), and stocks (shares of a corporation) are types of ownership investments. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-FI-077—Invest for Success (Types of Investments)

78. Many people donate to charity because it gives them a sense of 
A. accomplishment.
B. community.
C. superiority.
D. financial security.

78. B
Community. There are many reasons people donate to charity. One reason is because charitable giving provides them with a sense of community, or belonging, by being an active participant of society. It helps them feel connected—not superior—to those around them. While charitable giving is a worthy accomplishment, people don’t typically donate to charity just because it gives them a sense of accomplishment. People don’t donate to charity because it gives them a sense of financial security; instead, people experiencing financial security then decide to donate to charity. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: NSPCC. (2024). 10 reasons you should give to charity. Retrieved February 5, 2024, from
https://www.nspcc.org.uk/support-us/why-give-to-charity/ 

79. Rhea excelled in high school as both a student and a sprinter for the track and field team. As a result, she received financial aid from her college of choice that does not need to be paid back. What type of financial aid did Rhea receive? 
A. Work-study
B. Loan
C. Scholarship
D. Grant

79. C
Scholarship. A scholarship is a type of financial aid that does not need to be paid back, is merit-based, and is awarded to students based on academic achievements, extracurriculars, field of study, etc. Because Rhea does not have to pay the financial aid back, and because she received it based on her academic and track and field accomplishments, she received a scholarship. A grant is a type of financial aid that does not need to be paid back and that is given based on financial need. Work-study is a way for students to earn money to pay for college while working part-time jobs. There is no indication that Rhea received her financial aid based on financial need or that she received a work-study. Loans need to be repaid with interest. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Drexel University School of Education. (n.d.). Grants, scholarships, & loans: What's the difference?
Retrieved February 5, 2024, from https://drexel.edu/soe/admissions/financial-aid/difference-betweenstudent-grants-vs-loans 

80. Adrian is looking for a financial advisor that can assist him in distributing his assets after he has passed away. What type of financial-services provider would be best suited to handle Adrian’s needs? 
A. Estate planner
B. Beneficiary
C. Certified public accountant
D. Discount broker

80. A
Estate planner. An estate planner, or estate planning lawyer, can help individuals plan what will happen with their assets after they die. They can help create a will and powers of attorney to allow someone else to manage affairs in the event of death. A certified public accountant (CPA) can help individuals or businesses with tax planning and preparation. Discount brokers primarily provide the client with basic information about financial products and do not offer advice or conduct in-house research. A beneficiary is an individual or institution that receives specified benefits under certain circumstances such as money from a life-insurance policy upon the insured's death. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 12
SOURCE: CFP. (2024). How to choose a planner. Retrieved February 8, 2024, from
https://www.letsmakeaplan.org/how-to-choose-a-planner 2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 20 

81. Medicare provides medical coverage for people with disabilities and those who are age 
A. 65 and older.
B. 55 and younger.
C. 70 and younger.
D. 60 and older.

81. A
65 and older. Medicare is a government-sponsored program designed to help provide healthcare coverage for individuals with disabilities and seniors who are age 65 and older. Medicare is funded by taxes and enrollment is unrelated to income level. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: McWhinney, J. (2023, October 16). Medicare vs. Medicaid: What’s the difference? Retrieved
February 5, 2024, from https://www.investopedia.com/articles/pf/07/medicare-vs-medicaid.asp 

82. Business and worker production is likely to increase during an economic 
A. decline.
B. expansion.
C. trough.
D. recession.

82. B
Expansion. Expansion is a phase of the business cycle characterized by increased spending and borrowing, increased demand for goods and services, increased employment rates, and decreased interest rates on loans. During an expansion phase, businesses are likely to increase their production to meet increased consumer demand. Economic troughs, declines, and recessions are all periods where production is decreased. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-EC-918—Boom or Bust (Impact of Business Cycles)

83. Which of the following individuals would be eligible for unemployment benefits: 
A. JeFreda, who was laid off due to lack of work
B. Greta, who was fired for misconduct
C. Saquon, who quit his full-time job
D. Nathan, who embezzled from the company

83. A
JeFreda, who was laid off due to lack of work. To qualify for unemployment benefits, someone must be unemployed through no fault of their own and meet their state’s requirements for time worked or wages earned. JeFreda, who was laid off due to lack of work and not performance issues, could receive unemployment benefits. Disqualifying circumstances include being fired for misconduct, quitting without good cause, harassment, insubordination, and illegal activities, like embezzling funds. Saquon, Nathan, and Greta would not be eligible to receive unemployment benefits. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Doyle, A. (2022, December 7). How to tell if you are eligible for unemployment benefits. Retrieved
February 5, 2024, from https://www.thebalancemoney.com/guidelines-for-unemployment-eligibility2064135 

84. Which of the following is a short-term financial goal: 
A. Paying for a child’s education
B. Saving for retirement
C. Buying a vacation home
D. Paying off a credit card balance

84. D
Paying off a credit card balance. People budget for both short- and long-term financial goals. Short-term financial goals are those someone might be able to achieve within a year, such as paying off a credit card balance or establishing an emergency fund. Long-term financial goals are those that often take many years— even decades. Long-term goals include saving for retirement, paying for a child’s education, or buying a vacation home. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: Citizens. (2024). How to plan for short- and long-term saving goals. Retrieved February 5, 2024,
from https://www.citizensbank.com/learning/planning-for-short-term-and-long-term-goals.aspx 

85. Brianne received financial aid for college based solely on her family's financial need. In addition, her family does not need to repay the financial aid. What type of financial aid did Brianne receive? 
A. Loan
B. Scholarship
C. Work-study
D. Grant

85. D
Grant. A grant is a type of financial aid that does not need to be paid back and that is given based on financial need. A scholarship also does not need to be paid back, but is merit-based and awarded to students based on academic achievements, extracurriculars, field of study, etc. Because Brianne does not need to repay the financial aid and it was based solely on her family’s financial need, she received a grant. Loans need to be repaid with interest. Work-study is a way for students to earn money to pay for college while working part-time jobs. There is no indication that Brianne received a work-study. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Drexel University School of Education. (n.d.). Grants, scholarships, & loans: What's the difference?
Retrieved February 5, 2024, from https://drexel.edu/soe/admissions/financial-aid/difference-betweenstudent-grants-vs-loans 2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 21 

86. Which of the following is an advantage of a health savings account: 
A. Contributions are made with after-tax dollars.
B. It has a low-deductible requirement.
C. The money in it remains available even if you change jobs.
D. It doesn't charge a monthly maintenance or per-transaction fee.

86. C
The money in it remains available even if you change jobs. A health savings account (HSA) is a personal savings account that can be used only for medical expenses. HSAs help people with high-deductible health insurance plans over out-of-pocket medical costs. HSAs have several advantages, including that the money in the account remains available for future qualified medical expenses even if you change jobs, retire, or change health insurance plans. Additionally, HSA contributions are made with pretax dollars (not after-tax dollars). This means that employers won't withhold taxes on these dollars. To be eligible for an HSA, you must be enrolled in a high-deductible health plan (not a low-deductible health plan). While not all HSAs charge a monthly maintenance or per-transaction fee, many do depending on the institution. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: Folger, J. (2023, December 19). What are the pros and cons of a health savings account (HSA)?
Retrieved February 7, 2024, from https://www.investopedia.com/articles/personalfinance/090814/pros-and-cons-health-savings-account-hsa.asp 

87. What is the impact of making a large down payment on a house? 
A. It increases the market value of the house.
B. It increases the amount the buyer should borrow.
C. It decreases the interest paid over the long term.
D. It decreases the number of payments per year.

87. C
It decreases the interest paid over the long term. A down payment is a sum of money a buyer pays upfront in a large financial transaction, such as a house or a car. A high down payment has several benefits, as it decreases monthly payment amounts as well as the amount of interest the buyer will pay over the life of the loan. A large down payment also reduces the amount the buyer owes the lender, meaning the buyer will need to borrow less. A large down payment does not necessarily increase the value of the house. While a large down payment will decrease the amount owed monthly, it will not decrease the number of payments required per year. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2023, May 21). Down payment: What it is and how much is required. Retrieved
February 5, 2024, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/d/down_payment.asp 

88. Which of the following tools can governments use to stabilize the economy: 
A. Taxes
B. Job rotations
C. Treasury bonds
D. Mergers

88. A
Taxes. Taxes stabilize the economy because in times of need they can provide greater social services but be reduced in times of economic growth. Treasury bonds are marketable bonds issued by the U.S. government. While they can help the government finance its debt, they do little to help the overall economy. Mergers and job rotations are business activities, not government tools. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-EC-072—Pay Your Share (Business Taxes)

89. A fixed-rate mortgage is different than an adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM) in that fixed-rate mortgages 
A. have a set rate of interest that does not change.
B. are typically much cheaper than ARMs.
C. have rates that can increase or decrease over time.
D. are typically more complicated than ARMs.

89. A
Have a set rate of interest that does not change. A fixed-rate mortgage has an interest rate that is set when you take out the loan and will not change throughout the course of the loan. An adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM) has an interest rate that can increase or decrease over time in correlation with broader interest rate trends. ARMs are typically more complicated than fixed-rate mortgages, not vice versa. ARMs are typically much cheaper than fixed-rate mortgages, especially in the first three to seven years. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: McWhinney, J. (2023, July 24). Fixed vs. adjustable-rate mortgage: What's the difference? Retrieved
February 5, 2024, from https://www.investopedia.com/mortgage/mortgage-rates/fixed-versusadjustable-rate 2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 22 

90. Having a set structure for raises and bonuses can help businesses 
A. remove emotion from discussions about compensation.
B. lower the overall compensation for its employees business-wide.
C. be more transparent about employee compensation.
D. keep compensation conversations one-on-one.

90. C
Be more transparent about employee compensation. One way to make conversations about compensation transparent, straightforward, and fair is to have a company-wide structure for raises and bonuses that is clearly laid out and explained. That way, employees know exactly what is expected of them and what they can do to raise their compensation levels. Keeping conversations one-on-one does not necessarily correlate with structured raises and bonuses. Removing emotion from the conversation is not necessarily possible, because people are likely to have emotional reactions when money is involved. Having set compensation structures does not allow businesses to reduce the wages of their employees. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: Officevibe. (2022, April 7). The secret to discussing pay with employees. Retrieved February 5,
2024, from https://officevibe.com/blog/secret-to-discussing-pay-with-employees 

91. Which of the following is an example of an ownership investment: 
A. Certificates of deposit
B. Savings accounts
C. Bonds
D. Real estate

91. D
Real estate. Ownership investments are those in which an individual purchases a portion or all of an item. Collectibles (e.g., coins and antiques), real estate (e.g., buildings and land), and stocks (shares of a corporation) are types of ownership investments. With a lending investment, you allow someone to borrow your money for a period of time. In return, you earn a fee or interest on the amount that you lend. Examples of lending investments are savings accounts, certificates of deposit, and bonds. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-FI-077—Invest for Success (Types of Investments)

92. The brand value of a company’s name or products is considered 
A. an intangible asset.
B. stockholder equity.
C. operational equipment.
D. a hard asset.

92. A
An intangible asset. An intangible asset is a value to a company that is not physical in nature. Brand value cannot be measured empirically; therefore, it is an intangible asset. Hard assets are measurable assets such as property and operational equipment. Stockholder equity, also called book value, is what a company is worth from an accounting point of view. Stockholder equity does not include intangible assets. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 12
SOURCE: Kenton, W. (2023, December 15). What are intangible assets? Examples and how to value.
Retrieved February 8, 2024, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/i/intangibleasset.asp 

93. One of the main challenges of small business ownership is the large amount of __________ involved. 
A. communication
B. budgeting
C. risk
D. control

93. C
Risk. Because small businesses are primarily backed by the business owner themselves, they will absorb all debt or losses should the business fail. This makes small business ownership considerably riskier than other forms of entrepreneurship. A high degree of control is a benefit of small business ownership, not a downfall. Communication is typically not a challenge for natural entrepreneurs, who are predisposed to be good communicators and leaders. While budgeting can be a challenge, it is actually a benefit to the business in the long term. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-PD-066—Own Your Own (Career Opportunities in Entrepreneurship)
2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 23 

94. Which of the following statements about stocks is true: 
A. They are shares of ownership in a corporation.
B. They help governments or corporations raise money.
C. They are considered a safer investment than bonds.
D. They have much less downside volatility than bonds.

94. A
They are shares of ownership in a corporation. A stock is a share in the ownership of a corporation. When an investor buys a stock, part ownership of the corporation in the form of a share is bought. Bonds are lending investments in which individuals lend money to a government, municipality, or corporation to earn a set rate of interest for a specified time period. Simply, bonds help governments or corporations raise money. Bonds are considered a safer investment than stocks. Although stocks offer a higher potential for returns, bonds have much less downside volatility than stocks. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 12
SOURCE: Corporate Finance Institute. (2024). Stocks, bonds, and mutual funds. Retrieved February 8, 2024,
from https://corporatefinanceinstitute.com/resources/career-map/sell-side/capital-markets/stocksbonds-and-mutual-funds 

95. Which of the following best describes a debt relief company: 
A. It is a for-profit credit counseling agency.
B. It offers more personalized financial advice.
C. It is mission-driven rather than profit-driven.
D. It typically offers free or low-cost services.

95. A
It is a for-profit credit counseling agency. A debt relief company is an example of a for-profit credit counseling agency. The primary objective of for-profit credit counseling agencies is to generate revenue and earn profits, as they are driven by financial success (similar to other commercial enterprises). Nonprofit credit counseling agencies typically offer free or low-cost services and operate under specific guidelines set by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Nonprofit credit counseling agencies are mission-driven rather than profit-driven. Debt relief companies often use a generalized approach to settling debt, with little focus on their clients' overall financial health. Nonprofit debt relief agencies offer more personalized financial advice, as they help their clients create a plan to repay their debt and establish better habits. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Mangis, L. (2023, July 14). The main differences between for-profit and non-profit credit counseling.
Retrieved February 5, 2024, from https://www.advantageccs.org/blog/the-main-differences-betweenfor-profit-and-non-profit-credit-counseling 

96. Arson, inflated property damage claims, and false burglary reports fall under which of the following types of insurance fraud: 
A. Auto
B. Homeowner
C. Healthcare
D. Workers’ compensation

96. B
Homeowner. Arson, false or inflated property damage, false or inflated burglary or theft reports, and intentional damage claims are examples of homeowner fraud. Examples of healthcare fraud include billing for services not provided and double billing. Auto fraud includes staged accidents and false or inflated theft repair claims. Workers’ compensation fraud includes faking injuries and working while collecting workers’ compensation benefits. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Pennsylvania Office of Attorney General. (2024). Types of insurance fraud. Retrieved February 5,
2024, from https://consumer.ftc.gov/articles/what-know-about-identity-theft 

97. While Vivienne could track her spending habits with pen and paper, she prefers to use a budgeting app because it 
A. automates her calculations.
B. cancels her transactions.
C. submits her annual taxes.
D. earns her a commission.

97. A
Automates her calculations. There are many ways Vivienne could track her spending habits: pen and paper, a budgeting app, or a spreadsheet. A budgeting app provides many advantages, including automatically making budgetary calculations. For example, if Vivienne were to include all her weekly expenditures, the app could automatically add up these expenses and provide a sum. A budgeting app does not submit taxes, earn users a commission, or cancel transactions. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: Better Money Habits. (2024). Creating a budget. Retrieved February 5, 2024, from
https://bettermoneyhabits.bankofamerica.com/en/saving-budgeting/creating-a-budget 2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 24 

98. What are the primary organizations that maintain and provide consumer credit reports? 
A. TurboTax, E-Trade, and Experian
B. TurboTax, TransUnion, and Oracle
C. Equifax, TransUnion, and Experian
D. Equifax, E-Trade, and Oracle

98. C
Equifax, TransUnion, and Experian. The primary organizations that maintain and provide consumer credit reports are Equifax, TransUnion, and Experian. Each of these organization's reports contain information about how much credit you have, how much credit you use, your payment history, etc. TurboTax is a software that helps with preparing income tax returns. E-Trade is an electronic trading platform to trade financial assets. Oracle is a computer technology company that designs, manufactures, and sells software and hardware products and offers complementary services. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. (2024, January). List of consumer reporting companies.
Retrieved February 5, 2024, from https://www.consumerfinance.gov/consumer-tools/credit-reportsand-scores/consumer-reporting-companies/companies-list 

99. Which of the following statements about credit card grace periods is true: 
A. A grace period is usually a minimum of 10 days.
B. You are not charged interest during a grace period.
C. All credit cards offer grace periods.
D. Interest rate doubles during a grace period.

99. B
You are not charged interest during a grace period. A grace period for a credit card is a period between the end of a billing cycle and the date your payment is due. During this time, you are not charged interest until after your due date. Typically, grace periods continually renew as long as you pay your credit card balance in full every month. Grace periods are typically a minimum of 21 days but can be longer. Although most credit cards offer a grace period, not all of them do. The interest rate of the credit card doesn't double during a grace period. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Rathner, S., & McGuire, V.C. (2023, July 5). How credit card grace periods work. Retrieved February
2, 2024, from https://www.nerdwallet.com/article/credit-cards/credit-card-grace-period 

100. Which of the following is an advantage of a certificate of deposit: 
A. It allows for the ability to add money over time.
B. Its interest rates can change at any time.
C. It does not have a penalty for making a withdrawal.
D. Its fixed interest rate locks in a predictable rate of return.

100. D
Its fixed interest rate locks in a predictable rate of return. A certificate of deposit (CD) is a type of savings account that holds a fixed amount of money for a fixed period of time (6 months, 1 year, 5 years, etc.). In exchange, the issuing bank pays interest. When you redeem your CD, you receive the money you originally invested plus any interest. An advantage of a CD is that its fixed interest rate locks in a predictable rate of return, meaning its interest rate does not change over time. A disadvantage of CDs is that you cannot make a withdrawal before the term ends without facing a penalty. In addition, CDs do not allow you to add more money after the initial deposit. High-yield savings accounts do not have a penalty for making a withdrawal, allow you to add money over time, and have interest rates that can change at any time. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: Burnette, M. (2023, November 21). CD vs. high-yield savings account: Which should I choose?
Retrieved February 6, 2024, from https://www.nerdwallet.com/article/banking/faq-cd-or-highyieldsavings 