1. When purchasing homeowners' or renters' insurance, it is important to document your belongings with a home inventory list that includes 
A. original costs.
B. actual cash values.
C. a rider for expensive items.
D. replacement costs.

1. A
Original costs. A home inventory should include the numbers of items, when they were purchased, and the original cost. Replacement cost refers to the amount of money required to replace lost items with new purchases and can only be determined after a loss occurs. Actual cash value is the depreciated remaining value of an item and is determined at the time of a loss. A rider adds insurance coverage for expensive items like jewelry or collectibles. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: State Farm. (2022, September 1). How to create a home inventory. Retrieved October 25, 2023, from
https://www.statefarm.com/simple-insights/residence/home-inventory-how-to-create-one 

2. A factor that can increase productivity is 
A. education.
B. population growth.
C. labor unions.
D. unskilled workers.

2. A
Education. Better educated and trained workers are usually more productive workers. Their higher levels of productivity contribute to overall productivity. Unskilled workers are usually less productive than trained workers. Population growth alone will not increase productivity. Labor unions are groups of workers who have joined together for a common purpose to improve the terms and conditions under which employees work. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: LAP-EC-018—Make the Most of It (Productivity)

3. Which of the following statements about purchasing life insurance as a young adult is true: 
A. It is more difficult to qualify for a life insurance plan if you are healthy.
B. It is best to wait to purchase life insurance until the age of 50.
C. The younger you are, the more expensive life insurance will be.
D. The sooner you buy life insurance, the larger the cash value will grow.

3. D
The sooner you buy life insurance, the larger the cash value will grow. A benefit to purchasing life insurance as a young adult is that it will allow the cash value to grow larger. In simpler terms, some life insurance policies, such as a permanent life insurance policy, accumulate cash value over time as you pay premiums and by earning interest. As a result, the longer you have a life insurance plan, the more cash value you will have and be able to access if needed. The younger you are, the cheaper life insurance will be. It is best to purchase life insurance in your 20s rather than at the age of 50. Buying life insurance at a young age is cheaper because younger people are generally healthier and have less risk associated with them. In addition, buying at a young age could lock in lower rates as you age or develop any health issues. It is easier, not more difficult, to qualify for a life insurance plan if you are healthy, as there is less risk involved. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Western & Southern Financial Group, Inc. (2023, June 14). Life insurance for young adults. Retrieved
October 25, 2023, from https://www.westernsouthern.com/life-insurance/life-insurance-for-young-adults 

4. Which of the following is an advantage of a coupon-paying bond for investors: 
A. Its market price is always the same as its face value.
B. It provides coupons to buy additional bonds at a discount.
C. Its face value increases over time.
D. It provides interest payments until the bond matures.

4. D
It provides interest payments until the bond matures. Coupon-paying bonds provide the bondholder interest payments until the bond reaches maturity. Coupons are not issued to buy bonds at a discount. A bond's face value (representing the amount of principal the bondholder will receive upon maturity) remains the same from the day it is issued until it reaches maturity. A bond's market price changes in relationship to marketplace forces trading lower or higher than its face value. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 8
SOURCE: Parker, T. (2022, July 31). The basics of bonds. Retrieved October 25, 2023, from
https://www.investopedia.com/financial-edge/0312/the-basics-of-bonds.aspx 

5. Which of the following is a company-specific influence on a stock's price: 
A. Investor action
B. Government action
C. Change in supply or demand
D. Change in management

5. D
Change in management. Company-specific influences on a stock's price include changes in management, the introduction of new goods or services, and changes in the way the company is run (as in mergers, acquisitions, etc.). Outside forces influencing a stock's price include changes in supply or demand, economic conditions, government actions, investor actions, etc. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 8
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2023, January 26). How does a change in CEO impact stock price? Retrieved October
25, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/010815/how-does-change-ceo-impact-stockprice.asp PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 2 

6. You want to be a millionaire by the time you retire. To reach that goal, you put $2,000 per year in an IRA, starting at age 21. You will earn 9% interest annually. As a result, you will have over a million dollars at age 65. This scenario illustrates the power of 
A. the prime interest rate.
B. compound interest.
C. finance charges.
D. fiscal policy.

6. B
Compound interest. Compound interest is interest earned upon your previous interest earnings. By starting early and earning compound interest, you can accumulate a much larger amount of money than you would if you simply put $2,000 under your mattress or in a jar each year. A finance charge is interest charged on the outstanding balance of a credit account. Fiscal policy is the government policy that sets levels of government spending and taxation. The prime interest rate is the interest rate that banks offer to their best credit customers. There is no indication that 9% is the prime rate. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 8
SOURCE: Fernando, J. (2023, May 18). The power of compound interest: Calculations and examples. Retrieved
October 24, 2023, from http://www.investopedia.com/terms/c/compoundinterest.asp 

7. In most countries, credit reporting agencies are required to 
A. provide borrowers yearly access to their credit reports for free.
B. retain inaccurate credit information on an individual's credit report.
C. allow borrowers to remove criminal records from their credit histories.
D. grant borrowers unlimited free access to their credit reports.

7. A
Provide borrowers yearly access to their credit reports for free. Credit reporting agencies are generally required to provide borrowers a yearly credit report for free. Further requests for credit reports may be granted, but may cost additional money or may hurt the individual's credit score. Credit reporting agencies are not usually required to provide unlimited free access to credit reports. In many countries, credit reporting agencies are not required to remove criminal history from a borrower's credit report. In fact, criminal history is sometimes required to remain on a person's credit report. Credit reporting agencies are generally required to remove inaccurate credit information (provided that it can be verified as inaccurate) from a borrower's credit history within a reasonable amount of time. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 8
SOURCE: Fay, B. (2021, December 16). Fair Credit Reporting Act. Retrieved October 23, 2023, from
https://www.debt.org/credit/your-consumer-rights/fair-credit-reporting-act/ 

8. When Brandon lost his job due to downsizing, the government sent him an unemployment check to help him cover his living expenses until he found another job. What is Brandon's source of income? 
A. Refund
B. Wage garnishment
C. Transfer payment
D. Rebate

8. C
Transfer payment. Income is money received from outside sources. Sources of income include salaries, interest earned, dividends, rent, and transfer payments. Transfer payments are monies paid by the government in which no goods or services are received in exchange, such as welfare benefits, veterans' benefits, disaster aid, and unemployment compensation. To receive transfer payments, individuals, businesses, or jurisdictions must meet certain criteria. A rebate is a return of part of the price a customer pays for a product, usually from the product's manufacturer. A refund is a sum of money given back to individuals or businesses. Refunds are issued when an excessive amount has been paid (e.g., tax refund) or when items have been returned to a business. Wage garnishments are court-ordered initiatives that involve taking income from an employee's salary and submitting it to another person or organization. Examples of garnishments include child support and alimony. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: Segal, T. (2021, September 15). Transfer payment: Definition, types of transfers, and examples.
Retrieved October 23, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/t/transferpayment.asp 

9. People who are saving for retirement are advised to save enough money to account for inflation because dollars used in the future will have 
A. higher exchange rates.
B. less spending power.
C. lower exchange rates.
D. higher spending power.

9. B
Less spending power. The time value of money is the concept that dollars received in the future will be worth less than a dollar received today because of the impact of inflation. Exchange rates rise and fall and refer to the transfer of one currency into another. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: Fernando, J. (2023, March 28). Time value of money explained with formula and examples. Retrieved
October 23, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/t/timevalueofmoney.asp PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 3 

10. Which of the following is a common money-management mistake young adults make: 
A. Focusing on needs rather than wants
B. Giving in to peer pressure when spending
C. Using student loan refunds to purchase needs
D. Investing in the stock market

10. B
Giving in to peer pressure when spending. A common money-management mistake young adults make is giving in to peer pressure. Peer pressure is something that almost every young adult will face, but they need to understand that it is OK to say "no." If your friends want to go out to eat, go on a trip, or see a movie but you don't have enough money to responsibly participate, you don't need to give in to peer pressure. Young adults need to set financial goals and concentrate on what they really want out of their lives to help them avoid overspending. Focusing on needs rather than wants, using student loan refunds to purchase needs, and investing in the stock market are not common mistakes young adults make. In fact, focusing on needs rather than wants is something young adults should do, as is spending any student loan refunds on needs. By focusing on needs such as groceries, rent, utilities, etc., you won't be overspending on wants. Investing in the stock market isn't a common mistake, as investing early and often can help you build wealth through your investments. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: Fontinelle, A. (2023, March 15). The biggest financial hurdles young people face. Retrieved October 25,
2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/financial-edge/0712/the-biggest-financial-hurdles-youngpeople-face.aspx 

11. Which of the following is a way that businesses can protect consumers from financial loss when consumers buy products: 
A. By labeling products accurately
B. By providing protective packaging
C. By offering warranties or guarantees
D. By providing complete product-use instructions

11. C
By offering warranties or guarantees. Businesses can protect consumers financially by helping them get their money’s worth from the products they buy. By offering warranties or guarantees with products, businesses can protect consumers from financial loss if the product they buy is not up to standard. By providing product-use instructions, protective packaging, and appropriate labels, businesses protect the safety of consumers. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 8
SOURCE: LAP-PM-007—Protect and Serve (Consumer Protection)

12. Employees that participate in employer-sponsored insurance plans will see a __________ for the amount of the insurance on their paychecks each pay period. 
A. tax
B. credit
C. bonus
D. deduction

12. D
Deduction. A deduction is anything that is taken out of your paycheck. Common paycheck deductions include social security payments, taxes, and insurance payments. Employees who participate in employer-sponsored insurance plans will see deductions on their paychecks each pay period for the amount that they owe. They will not see credits or bonuses, since insurance is an expense and not a source of income. Insurance deductions are not tax, since the government does not take them out. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Lazarony, L. (2021, September 21). Paychecks 101: How to read a pay stub. Retrieved October 25,
2023, from https://www.credit.com/blog/how-to-read-your-paycheck-stub/ 

13. While managers help make entrepreneurs' visions a reality, they aren't required to 
A. set business objectives.
B. formulate company policy.
C. assume the risk involved.
D. implement procedures.

13. C
Assume the risk involved. Entrepreneurs assume the risks of starting and building their businesses, but they do not require their managers to take on this risk as well. Managers are responsible for setting business objectives, formulating policy, and implementing policies and procedures. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: LAP-PD-066—Own Your Own (Career Opportunities in Entrepreneurship)

14. Pete puts his money in a professionally managed portfolio, where it is pooled together with money from other investors. Pete is investing in a(n) 
A. mutual fund.
B. corporate bond.
C. exchange-traded fund (ETF).
D. preferred stock.

14. A
Mutual fund. A mutual fund bundles together many securities in a professionally managed portfolio. Mutual funds are made of pools of money gathered from many investors. Exchange-traded funds (ETFs) are similar to mutual funds, but ETFs are not managed by brokerage firms. A corporate bond is a loan in exchange for repayment after a specific length of time plus interest. Preferred stock provides shareholders with regular dividend payments but doesn't carry voting rights. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 8
SOURCE: LAP-FI-077—Invest for Success (Types of Investments)
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 4 

15. When you are just beginning your career, what should be the main emphasis of your retirement planning efforts? 
A. Matching your employer's contributions
B. Taking monthly payouts from acquired assets
C. Setting aside money for retirement
D. Adjusting retirement plan to maintain acquired wealth

15. C
Setting aside money for retirement. The main emphasis of retirement planning early in one's career is saving money for the purpose of retirement. Near the end of one's career, adjustments help protect acquired wealth that is needed for retirement. Monthly payouts should not occur until one has reached retirement. Employees do not match employer's contributions. Some employers, however, match a percent of employee contributions to help employees meet retirement goals. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 8
SOURCE: Kagen, J. (2023, January 9). What is retirement planning? Steps, stages, and what to consider.
Retrieved October 24, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/r/retirement-planning.asp 

16. If individuals enjoy operating machinery, driving vehicles, or using tools, they might consider a career that involves working with 
A. information.
B. people.
C. animals.
D. things.

16. D
Things. Individuals should consider what they like to do, including their favorite activities, when identifying possible occupations. For example, some individuals enjoy operating machinery, driving vehicles, or using tools. As a result, they might consider a career that involves working with things, which are tangible items. Examples include a landscaper who operates equipment and drives a truck and a carpenter who uses tools to build furniture. Careers that involve working with people and animals require a lot of personal interaction and patience. Careers that involve working with information involve keeping track of data such as facts and statistics. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: Government of Alberta. (2001-2023). Jobs where you drive or move things. Retrieved October 25,
2023, from https://alis.alberta.ca/tools-and-resources/resources-for-people-with-low-literacy/easyreading-make-some-job-choices/jobs-where-you-drive-or-move-things/ 

17. Which of the following statements regarding financial institutions is true: 
A. Finance and insurance institutions typically hinder the flow or movement of money through the economy.
B. Because each financial institution functions independently, the failure of one financial institution has little
effect on the others. C. Financial institutions concentrate the risk that individual savers and investors face among a small number of
borrowers. D. If the flow of money into a financial institution slows down, there is less money available for the institution to

17. D
If the flow of money into a financial institution slows down, there is less money available for the institution to lend or invest. Financial institutions act as intermediaries by transferring money from those who have it (savers and investors) to those who need it (borrowers). When a financial institution brings in less money, then it has less money available to lend or invest. Finance and insurance institutions help facilitate the flow or movement of money through the economy from those who have money to those who need money. Financial institutions reduce the risk that individual savers and investors face by spreading their funds out among many borrowers. That way, if a loan or investment goes bad, its impact on individual savers and investors is minimized. Financial institutions are often connected to each other through deposits, investments, and loans that they make to each other. If one financial institution fails, it has the potential to cause a string of other financial institution failures. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 8
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2023, February 12). Money supply definition: Types and how it affects the
economy. Retrieved October 24, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/m/moneysupply.asp 

18. Harish enjoys playing basketball even though he's not very good at it. His sister Kajal, however, is a naturally talented athlete. In other words, Harish has a(n) __________ basketball, whereas Kajal has a(n) __________ basketball. 
A. interest in; aptitude for
B. aptitude for; ability for
C. aptitude for; interest in
D. interest in; passion for

18. A
Interest in; aptitude for. An interest is something that you enjoy doing or participating in, regardless of your natural ability for it. Since Harish enjoys playing basketball, he has an interest in it—even though he doesn't have an aptitude for it. An aptitude is a natural talent or ability for something. Kajal has an aptitude for basketball because she is a talented athlete. Just because you are good at something, however, doesn't mean you have an interest in it—Kajal may or may not be interested in basketball. It is impossible to tell from this example whether or not Harish or Kajal have a passion for basketball. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: McKay, D.R. (2019, August 21). Knowing your aptitude can help you choose a career. Retrieved
October 25, 2023, from https://www.liveabout.com/what-is-aptitude-526175 PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 5 

19. Who purchases workers' compensation insurance? 
A. Middle managers
B. Medical professionals
C. Employees
D. Employers

19. D
Employers. Workers' compensation insurance covers the costs associated with an employee who is injured at work. It is purchased by any business owner or employer who has hired employees. Employees, the medical professionals, and middle managers do not necessarily purchase workers' compensation insurance. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Insureon. (2023). Workers' compensation insurance. Retrieved October 25, 2023, from
https://www.insureon.com/small-business-insurance/workers-compensation 

20. A good way to prioritize your financial goals is to 
A. recognize that all the goals are equally important.
B. rank goals according to what needs to be done first.
C. rank every goal in numerical order.
D. assign each goal to a general category.

20. D
Assign each goal to a general category. A good way to prioritize your financial goals is to assign each goal to a general category such as "must do," "important but not critical," or "not so important." Ranking according to what needs to be done first and ranking every goal in numerical order are two common pitfalls. Another pitfall is ranking everything as very important or thinking that all the goals are equally important. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 8
SOURCE: Campbell, J. (2018, December 3). How to set and keep personal financial goals. Retrieved October 24,
2023, from https://www.moneymanagement.org/blog/how-to-set-and-keep-personal-financial-goals 

21. Jack is a senior executive at the Farkle Corporation. He recently told his sister that Farkle is getting ready to declare bankruptcy. However, Farkle doesn't plan to announce this news to its general shareholders until next week. If Jack's sister sells her shares of Farkle before the public learns about the bankruptcy, Jack and his sister could be prosecuted for 
A. accounting fraud.
B. insider trading.
C. market capitalization.
D. affinity fraud.

21. B
Insider trading. If a corporate “insider” such as an owner, director, or high-level manager shares confidential company information with someone who then buys or sells the company's stock as a result of this knowledge, illegal insider trading occurs. Insider trading is not always illegal, though. Legal insider trading takes place when corporate insiders buy or sell their own company's securities and report the trades to the SEC. Accounting fraud occurs when a company or organization knowingly publishes incorrect information on its financial statements. Affinity fraud, often in the form of a Ponzi or pyramid scheme, is an investment scam in which the scammer claims to be a member of the group they are targeting. Market capitalization is an indicator of the size of a public company as measured by the total dollar value of its stock. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 12
SOURCE: U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. (n.d.). Insider trading. Retrieved October 23, 2023, from
https://www.investor.gov/introduction-investing/investing-basics/glossary/insider-trading 

22. It takes Theodore five years to pay off a loan of $1,000 with a 3% interest rate per year. What was the total cost of Theodore's loan? 
A. $11,500
B. $1,500
C. $150
D. $1,150

22. D
$1,150. The total cost of a loan is the principal (amount of money being borrowed) plus the amount of interest accrued during the time it takes to pay back the loan. The amount of interest a loan accrues is calculated by multiplying the principal times the interest rate ($1,000 X 3% [or 0.03] = $30) times the length of time for which the loan is made ($30 X 5 years = $150). So, Theodore paid $150 on top of his principal. The interest plus the principal is $1,150 ($150 + $1,000 = $1,150), the total cost of the loan. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 8
SOURCE: Kasasa. (2021, March 30). What is my loan payment formula? [+ Tips for a lower interest rate].
Retrieved October 25, 2023, from https://www.kasasa.com/blog/how-to-calculate-loan-payments-in-3easy-steps PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 6 

23. Jonathon, a high school student, recently received his very first paycheck—and he's a bit confused about what the different numbers mean. He wants to know how much money he actually gets to deposit into his bank account after taxes and other expenses have been taken out. Jonathon wants to know his 
A. gross income.
B. net income.
C. taxable income.
D. dividends.

23. B
Net income. Net income is the money remaining after expenses are subtracted from gross income. For individuals, net income is simply the amount of money taken home after taxes and other expenses are deducted. Gross income, on the other hand, is the total amount of money earned before taxes. Taxable income is the portion of an individual's or business's earnings that is subject to taxation. A dividend is a sum of money paid to an investor or stockholder as earnings on an investment. Jonathon is interested in knowing his net income in this example, not his gross income, taxable income, or dividends. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: Fiorillo, S. (2023, January 17). What's the difference between gross vs. net income? Retrieved October
24, 2023, from https://www.thestreet.com/personal-finance/gross-vs-net-income-14659057 

24. What is the first thing that you should do if you find a debit card transaction listed on your bank statement that you do not recognize? 
A. Wait to see if your bank corrects the error.
B. Report it to your bank.
C. Deactivate your debit card.
D. Record it in your check register.

24. B
Report it to your bank. It's important to quickly report and investigate unfamiliar debit card transactions so the bank can resolve a potential error or determine if you are a victim of fraud. You should only record debit card transactions that you recognize in your check register. You should only deactivate your debit card when it is lost, stolen, or used fraudulently. You should not depend on your bank to identify debit card transactions that don't belong to you. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Caldwell, M. (2021, November 9). Learn how to balance your checkbook. Retrieved October 24, 2023,
from https://www.thebalancemoney.com/how-to-balance-your-checkbook-2385975 

25. Creditors are required to inform consumers about __________ before offering them a credit product. 
A. fees and penalties
B. their credit scores
C. the state of the economy
D. the company's history

25. A
Fees and penalties. Laws require creditors to provide certain information to consumers before extending credit to them. This ensures consumers are able to make well-informed decisions. For example, creditors must provide information about the fees and penalties that consumers will be required to pay. While consumers have the right to a free copy of their credit reports, the creditors are not required to provide information about consumers' credit scores before offering them a credit product. Creditors are not required to inform consumers about the state of the economy or the company's history before offering them a credit product. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Mangis, L. (2017, December 19). Consumer credit laws and what you need to know about them.
Retrieved October 23, 2023, from https://www.advantageccs.org/blog/consumer-credit-laws-and-whatyou-need-to-know-about-them 

26. Businesses can help protect customers from credit card fraud by requesting customers who pay with credit cards to 
A. show the signature on the back.
B. pay an additional fee.
C. discard credit receipts on site.
D. pay with cash instead.

26. A
Show the signature on the back. Employees should compare the signature on the card with the one on the receipt to help ensure the card is being presented by the card's owner. In some cases, merchants are legally allowed to charge their customers an additional fee if using a credit card, but doing so does not help protect customers from credit card fraud. Asking a customer to pay with cash when they prefer to use credit is rude and unhelpful. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Consumerist. (2018, May 4). 10 answers to credit card questions we get asked all the time. Retrieved
October 25, 2023, from https://www.consumerreports.org/consumerist/10-answers-to-credit-cardquestions-we-get-asked-all-the-time/ PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 7 

27. Smith Brothers typically promotes employees based on seniority. To do this, which of the following pieces of information would Smith Brothers need for each employee: 
A. Years worked at current job
B. Years of experience in the career field
C. Years of good performance at the current job
D. Years of college education

27. A
Years worked at current job. Seniority is based simply on the amount of time an employee has worked at their current position. It does not take into account years spent working a similar job at other companies. The type or number of years spent earning an advanced degree is not used to calculate seniority. Performance is not taken into consideration when seniority is calculated. Promotion based on good performance (merit-based) is a different method that could be used to determine promotion. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: Indeed. (2022, June 24). Seniority vs. performance in promotions: Definitions, pros and cons and
tips. Retrieved October 25, 2023, from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/careerdevelopment/seniority-vs-performance#:~:text=A%20seniority%2Dbased%20promotion%20 is%20where%20management%20 promotes%20an%20employee,other%20qualifications%20for%20the%20promotion 

28. It is easier to budget for __________ than it is to budget for __________. 
A. transportation; utilities
B. expenses; income
C. variable expenses; fixed expenses
D. fixed expenses; variable expenses

28. D
Fixed expenses; variable expenses. Fixed expenses are expenses that stay the same each month and cannot be easily changed. They are easier to estimate than variable expenses, which are daily spending decisions that change in amount month by month. Expenses are not necessarily easier to budget than income. Transportation is not necessarily easier to budget than utilities. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: Pant, P. (2022, July 31). What's the difference between fixed and variable expenses? Retrieved
October 24, 2023, from https://www.thebalancemoney.com/what-s-the-difference-between-fixed-andvariable-expenses-453774 

29. Trey has determined he would like to start saving $200 each month for college expenses. What is the next step he should take when creating his personal budget? 
A. Identify cash inflows and outflows
B. Determine his personal net worth
C. Identify liquid assets
D. Determine net cash flow

29. A
Identify cash inflows and outflows. Determining the inflow and outflow of cash helps a person understand how much they earn and spend each month. Identifying these cash inflows and outflows is the most significant step in creating a personal budget. Net cash flow cannot be determined until all cash inflows and outflows in the budget are identified. Liquid assets are items an individual owns that can easily be turned into cash, but they are not typically considered when developing a budget. A person's net worth is the combination of their assets and their liabilities and is also not typically considered when developing a budget. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 8
SOURCE: Mapping Your Future. (2023). Start budgeting. Retrieved October 24, 2023, from
https://mappingyourfuture.org/money/budget.cfm 

30. Which of the following is the best way for Jane to obtain her credit score: 
A. By checking her credit card statement
B. By asking her employer for the information
C. By applying for an account with a credit union
D. By adding together her credit card balances

30. A
By checking her credit card statement. While most individuals know that they can obtain their credit reports free of charge from the three nationwide credit bureaus annually, many don't realize that these credit reports don't contain their credit scores. Instead, individuals can usually get their credit scores from their credit card or loan statements, a credit score service, or a non-profit credit counselor. Jane cannot obtain her credit score by adding together her credit card balances or by applying for an account with a credit union. A credit union is a financial cooperative set up to provide savings and credit services to its members—usually within a business or labor union. Although an employer may obtain an employee's credit report from an authorized credit bureau, the employer may not have the most current information on file. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Equifax. (2023). How can I check credit scores? Retrieved October 24, 2023, from
https://www.equifax.com/personal/education/credit/score/articles/-/learn/how-to-check-creditscore/#:~:text=Credit%20reports%20from%20the%20three%20nationwide%20 credit%20bureaus%20do%20not,or%20free%20credit%20scoring%20site PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 8 

31. One reason it is important to verify that credit agencies have current information about your credit history is because incorrect data can affect your ability to 
A. sell assets.
B. obtain a bank loan.
C. declare bankruptcy.
D. pay your bills.

31. B
Obtain a bank loan. Credit is the arrangement by which businesses can purchase now and pay later. A credit agency is a business that maintains files of credit information on individuals and businesses. It is important to make sure that credit agencies have accurate information about your credit history because other businesses purchase the reports to make decisions about extending credit or providing a loan to you. Your credit history does not necessarily affect your ability to pay your bills, your ability to declare bankruptcy, or your ability to sell assets. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 8
SOURCE: Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. (2015, August). What your credit report says about you.
Retrieved October 24, 2023, from https://www.philadelphiafed.org//media/frbp/assets/institutional/education/publications/what-your-credit-report-says-about-you.pdf 

32. Karen enjoys spending money when she goes out with her friends, but recently she has decided to decrease her spending in order to save money for concert tickets. Karen's friends want to hang out this Saturday. Which of the following activities should Karen suggest so she can stay focused on her financial goal: 
A. See the newest action movie
B. Shop for discount books
C. Play basketball in the park
D. Eat dinner at the mall food court

32. C
Play basketball in the park. Because Karen's goal is to buy concert tickets, she needs to save money to put toward those tickets. To save money, Karen needs to decrease her spending. Playing basketball in the park is a free activity. Seeing a movie at the cinema, eating dinner at a restaurant in the food court, and shopping for books (even if discounted), are all activities that cost money. Thus, to spend the least amount of money when she sees her friends this weekend, Karen should play in the park. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 8
SOURCE: Fontinelle, A. (2021, July 31). Why saving money is important. Retrieved October 24, 2023, from
https://www.investopedia.com/articles/personal-finance/031215/why-saving-money-important.asp 

33. How do spending levels change during an inflationary period? 
A. Consumers keep spending no matter what; businesses are more cautious.
B. Consumers and businesses spend less.
C. Overall spending generally remains unchanged.
D. Consumers spend less, but businesses tend to spend more.

33. B
Consumers and businesses spend less. When inflation sets in and prices rise, consumers change their spending habits, which is disruptive to the economy. Depending on the degree of inflation, consumer spending can fall dramatically, especially on larger purchases such as homes. The housing industry has been hard-hit during inflationary periods. Businesses also adjust their spending habits, and when interest rates on business loans are high, for example, they may cut back on factory orders to reduce the cost of borrowing. A decline in orders often causes factory layoffs. Changes in spending habits cause ripple effects and can have a dramatic impact on the economy. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: Oner, C. (n.d.). Inflation: Prices on the rise. Retrieved October 23, 2023, from
https://www.imf.org/en/Publications/fandd/issues/Series/Back-to-Basics/Inflation 

34. A credit plan that requires a signed contract, a down payment, and the balance to be paid over a specific period of time is called __________ credit. 
A. open
B. revolving
C. installment
D. regular

34. C
Installment. Customers must usually pay a finance charge, or interest, for the privilege of using this kind of credit. Revolving credit plans do not require down payments. Regular, or open, credit allows credit users to buy at any time during a set period, usually 30 days. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance)

35. What action can workers take to acquire new skills that can enhance their job performance? 
A. Complete a college application
B. Take classes at a community college
C. Obtain recommendations from others
D. Contact former employers

35. B
Take classes at a community college. Workers who want to advance in or keep up with their chosen professions often need to obtain additional, ongoing education. There are many ways for workers to acquire job-related skills, such as taking classes at a university or community college. Completing a college application, obtaining recommendations, and contacting former employers are not actions that help workers obtain new skills. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: Laman, B. (2023, May 9). Community colleges' essential role in workforce development. Retrieved
October 25, 2023, from https://timelycare.com/blog/community-colleges-essential-role-in-workforcedevelopment/ PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 9 

36. A debtor-creditor relationship exists when 
A. a sale is paid in full.
B. a contract is invalidated.
C. stocks are liquidated.
D. interest is charged.

36. D
Interest is charged. When an individual or business charges interest on money that another individual or business borrows, a debtor-creditor relationship exists. An invalid contract and a sale that is paid in full at the time of transaction do not establish a debtor-creditor relationship. In some situations, a debtor may liquidate stocks to pay a creditor; however, this does not always occur. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 8
SOURCE: Encyclopedia Britannica. (2023). Debtor and creditor. Retrieved October 23, 2023, from
https://www.britannica.com/money/debtor-creditor-relationship 

37. If you are nearing retirement, which investing approach will you use? 
A. Conservative
B. Moderate
C. Tax-minimizing
D. Aggressive

37. A
Conservative. If you are nearing retirement, you want to preserve the money you've accumulated and make sure it's safe. Therefore, you need to invest conservatively, rather than aggressively or moderately. A tax-minimizing approach to investing is an approach you should use throughout your entire life, not just when nearing retirement. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 12
SOURCE: Smith, L. (2023, February 23). Using time horizons to reach your investing goals. Retrieved October 24,
2023, from http://www.investopedia.com/articles/investing/110813/using-time-horizons-investing.asp 

38. A survey designed to help you assess your strengths and weaknesses is a 
A. group talent test.
B. personal skills inventory.
C. group learning exam.
D. personal behavior survey.

38. B
Personal skills inventory. A survey designed to help you assess your strengths and weaknesses is a personal skills inventory. The survey asks multiple-choice questions related to your behavior, interests, and feelings. The survey is then scored, and you are given the results. The survey results often reveal new information about you that could be useful in the assessment process. Such surveys are not known as group talent tests, personal behavior surveys, or group learning exams. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: LAP-EI-902—Assess for Success (Assessing Personal Strengths and Weaknesses)

39. Agencies like the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Canadian Securities Administrators (CSA) help protect investors by 
A. enforcing workplace safety measures.
B. establishing interest rates.
C. providing financial advice.
D. preventing fraudulent activity.

39. D
Preventing fraudulent activity. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) of the United States and the Canadian Securities Administrators (CSA) are responsible for regulating fair capital markets by working to prevent fraud and other manipulative practices. The SEC and CSA do not provide financial advice, enforce workplace safety measures, or establish interest rates. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 12
SOURCE: Chen, J. (2022, April 27). Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) defined, how it works. Retrieved
October 23, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/s/sec.asp 

40. In most countries, there are laws in place to protect consumers from unfair credit practices such as 
A. adhering to standardized procedures that are transparent and understandable.
B. providing the terms and conditions of credit agreements in clear language.
C. discriminating against certain demographics when reviewing applications for credit.
D. banning debt collectors from threatening consumers that owe money.

40. C
Discriminating against certain demographics when reviewing applications for credit. Many countries have consumer credit protection laws in place to prevent debtors from being treated unfairly by creditors. For example, in the United States, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act requires banks and credit card companies to make credit equally available to all credit-worthy applicants regardless of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, or age. Banning debt collectors from threatening consumers that owe money, adhering to standardized procedures, and providing clear terms and conditions are all examples of fair credit practices—not unfair practices. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Fay, B. (2021, July 13). The Federal Consumer Credit Protection Act and how it protects you. Retrieved
October 23, 2023, from https://www.debt.org/credit/your-consumer-rights/protection-act/ PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 10 

41. Two factors that influence the cost of homeowners insurance are 
A. the age of your home and the city in which you grew up.
B. where you graduated from college and your claims history.
C. your credit history and the number of cars you own.
D. the location of your home and your marital status.

41. D
The location of your home and your marital status. The cost of homeowners insurance can depend on a variety of factors. Two of those factors are the location of your home and your marital status. If your home is in an area that has a history of vandalism, theft, or weather-related events, then it could increase the cost of your policy. Location can work positively too, as living near a fire station could reduce the cost. In addition, insurers will typically charge lower rates to married couples due to lower assumed risk and will often charge more for a single person. Other factors that could influence the cost of homeowners insurance include your credit history, your claims history, and the age of your home. The number of cars you own, where you graduated from college, and what city you grew up in are not factors that could impact the cost of homeowners insurance. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: See, J. (2023, April 24). Factors that impact your cost of homeowners insurance. Retrieved October 25,
2023, from https://www.bankrate.com/insurance/homeowners-insurance/factors-that-impact-homeinsurance-rates/ 

42. An important part of employee compensation is the 
A. intangible reward system.
B. benefit package.
C. discount rate.
D. wage garnishment.

42. B
Benefit package. Employee compensation includes a combination of pay and benefits. The benefit package is important because it amounts to about one-third of total compensation. Businesses need to consider the cost of the benefit package when developing staffing needs. For example, if an employee is paid $30,000 a year, the benefit package costs the business about $10,000 a year for a total of $40,000. There is a big difference between $30,000 and $40,000 when preparing a budget. Wage garnishment, intangible reward system, and discount rate are not important parts of employee compensation. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: Wooll, M. (2022, August 17). Compensation and benefits: Why the right pay and perks
matter. Retrieved October 25, 2023, from https://www.betterup.com/blog/compensation-andbenefits#:~:text=Compensation%20is%20an%20umbrella%20term,motivate%20employees%20 to%20perform%20better 

43. Knowing your personal strengths and weaknesses helps you 
A. perform well on a skills assessment test.
B. ask others for input about your strengths and abilities.
C. identify potential strengths and weaknesses in others.
D. make informed decisions about your future.

43. D
Make informed decisions about your future. By knowing your strengths—things you enjoy and do well—as well as your weaknesses, you can make better decisions about your future. For example, you might determine that you are artistic and enjoy drawing but have a hard time with math. When it is time to determine your career path, you might decide to become a graphic artist rather than a financial planner. By knowing yourself, you select a career that focuses on your strengths rather than your weaknesses, indicating that you are making a thoughtful, informed decision about your future. Identifying others' strengths and weaknesses does not help you identify your own strengths and weaknesses. Asking others for input about your abilities is one way in which you can identify your strengths and weaknesses. A skills assessment test is not about performing well or getting a good grade; rather, it is another way in which you can identify your strengths and weaknesses. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: LAP-EI-902—Assess for Success (Assessing Personal Strengths and Weaknesses)

44. Shonda buys a house for $135,000, and then sells it for $150,000 five years later. The amount of money she makes on the sale is considered a __________ gain. 
A. short-term excise
B. long-term excise
C. long-term capital
D. short-term capital

44. C
Long-term capital. A capital gain is money you make when you sell something (such as real estate) for more than you bought it for. A long-term capital gain occurs when you sell a capital asset after owning it for more than a year. This is not an example of an excise tax. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 12
SOURCE: Intuit TurboTax. (2023, October 19). 5 things you should know about capital gains tax. Retrieved
October 23, 2023, from https://turbotax.intuit.com/tax-tips/investments-and-taxes/5-things-you-shouldknow-about-capital-gains-tax/L0m06D9lI PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 11 

45. Which of the following financial goals is most appropriate for a person following a planned budget: 
A. Save a set amount and meet all expenses each month.
B. Save any extra money to pay for rent each month.
C. Find a job that provides a much larger income.
D. Pay for all expenses and save any amount left over.

45. A
Save a set amount and meet all expenses each month. A person who sets a financial goal of saving a set amount and meeting all expenses each month is most likely to be following a planned budget. Saving what is left over at the end of the month shows a lack of financial management and usually results in no savings. Rent payments should be budgeted and paid using monthly income, not with extra money found. Finding a job with a larger income is a good personal goal, but it is not part of following a budget. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 8
SOURCE: Mapping Your Future. (2023). Start budgeting. Retrieved October 24, 2023, from
https://mappingyourfuture.org/money/budget.cfm 

46. Which of the following government agencies was created to ensure the stability of the U.S. banking system: 
A. Federal Communications Commission (FCC)
B. Federal Trade Commission (FTC)
C. Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
D. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC)

46. D
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) is a government agency created to ensure the stability of the U.S. banking system. Congress created the FDIC in 1933, during the Great Depression, to restore confidence in the country's financial system and protect individual depositors in the event of bank failures. The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) is a government agency that regulates interstate and international communications by radio, television, wire, satellite, and cable. The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) is a government regulatory agency that administers and enforces antitrust laws to prevent price fixing and to prohibit unfair competitive practices. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is a federal agency that collects taxes and enforces tax law.. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 8
SOURCE: Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. (n.d.). About the FDIC. Retrieved October 20, 2023, from
https://www.fdic.gov/ 

47. Arial is a high school student working 10 hours a week at a part-time job. She wants to buy her first car. She has $1,000 saved for a down payment and plans to obtain a car loan for the remaining purchase price. What should she do first? 
A. Test drive several used car models
B. Get preapproved for a car loan
C. Research a new car model that she likes
D. Determine how much debt she can afford

47. D
Determine how much debt she can afford. It's important for a consumer to determine how much debt they can afford before obtaining a loan or making a big purchase. Since Arial works part-time and only has a small down payment, she shouldn't waste her time researching a new car model that she probably cannot afford. It's better to personally determine the amount of financing needed before seeking a preapproved car loan. Arial should delay test driving any cars until she determines a realistic amount to spend and has conducted some research on cars within her budget. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Better Money Habits. (2023). 8 tips for buying your first car. Retrieved October 25, 2023, from
https://bettermoneyhabits.bankofamerica.com/en/auto/buying-your-first-car 

48. Which federal agency supervises banks and credit unions? 
A. Federal Trade Commission
B. Consumer Product Safety Commission
C. Federal Bureau of Investigation
D. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau

48. D
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau works to make financial products safe for consumers by educating and informing them; by supervising banks, credit unions, and other financial-services providers; and by studying consumer behavior. The Federal Bureau of Investigation gathers intelligence and conducts criminal investigations. The Consumer Product Safety Commission is the federal agency that carries the bulk of the responsibility for ensuring product safety. The Federal Trade Commission aims to protect consumers and to eliminate unfair business competition. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: National Archives and Records Administration. (n.d.). Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Retrieved
October 23, 2023, from https://www.federalregister.gov/agencies/consumer-financial-protection-bureau PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 12 

49. Which of the following is a tax-deductible expense: 
A. Athletic-club membership fees
B. A computer for a home-based business
C. International leisure travel
D. Personal phone charges

49. B
A computer for a home-based business. Many business expenses—equipment, supplies, and travel—are tax deductible under specific conditions. Often, individuals pay for business-related goods and services up front and list them as deductions on their tax returns, which can lower their tax obligation. A computer used for a homebased business is an example of an item that can be claimed as a tax deduction on a tax return. Goods and services for personal consumption—personal phone charges, athletic-club membership fees, and international leisure travel—are not tax-deductible expenses. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: Corporate Finance Institute. (2015-2023). Tax deductible. Retrieved October 23, 2023, from
https://corporatefinanceinstitute.com/resources/accounting/tax-deductible/ 

50. When Jane received her first paycheck from her part-time job, she was surprised to see the amount was much less than her $8.00 per hour pay rate multiplied by the number of hours she worked. Jane had not planned on __________ tax being taken out of her paycheck. 
A. property
B. excise
C. income
D. sales

50. C
Income. Income tax is a tax on all income a person earns. A percentage of Jane's pay is taken out to pay for this tax. Property tax is tax on property, such as a house. Consumers pay a sales tax when they purchase many types of goods. Since Jane is receiving her pay, not buying a good, sales tax does not apply. Excise taxes are taxes paid when purchases are made on a specific good, such as gasoline. Excise taxes are often included in the price of the product. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: AmosWEB. (2000-2023). Taxes. Retrieved October 24, 2023, from http://www.amosweb.com/cgi-bin/
awb_nav.pl?s=wpd&c=dsp&k=taxes 

51. Which of the following is a cost of credit: 
A. Rebates
B. Finance charges
C. Discounts
D. Fidelity bonds

51. B
Finance charges. Finance charges are the interest charged on credit accounts that are not paid in full at the end of each month. Discounts are cash deductions that are often provided as an incentive for early payment of an account. Fidelity bonds are a type of insurance that protects businesses from losses due to employee theft. A rebate is a return of part of the price a customer pays for a good or service, which is usually offered by the manufacturer of the good. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 8
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit is Due (Credit and Its Importance)

52. One of the biggest benefits of having a personal checking account is the ability to 
A. sign up for mobile/online banking.
B. invest in the stock market.
C. diversify your stock portfolio.
D. earn interest on your money.

52. A
Sign up for mobile/online banking. Most banks now offer online banking services to customers with personal checking accounts. Online banking is convenient, fast, and easy—and allows you to take care of most of your financial business without a visit to the bank. Personal checking accounts generally do not allow you to invest in the stock market, earn interest, or diversify your stock portfolio. You would need to use other financial products and services to do those things. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: Bank of America. (2023). 8 checking account features everyone should know. Retrieved October 25,
2023, from https://bettermoneyhabits.bankofamerica.com/en/personal-banking/checking-accountinformation 

53. What is an example of an internal stock information resource? 
A. A financial website portal
B. Brokerage firm research
C. A company's annual report
D. The Value Line Investment Survey®

53. C
A company's annual report. A company's annual report is an example of an internal resource because it comes from the company itself. The Value Line Investment Survey®, brokerage firm research, and financial website portals are all examples of external stock information resources. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 12
SOURCE: Corporate Finance Institute. (2023, October 3). Internal vs external financial reporting. Retrieved
October 24, 2023, from https://corporatefinanceinstitute.com/resources/knowledge/accounting/internalvs-external-financial-reporting/ PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 13 

54. A business that responds to a customer's complaint or inquiry about their credit account within a certain time limit stated by federal law is following the guidelines of the 
A. Fair Credit Reporting Act.
B. Equal Credit Opportunity Act.
C. Truth-in-Lending Act.
D. Fair Credit Billing Act.

54. D
Fair Credit Billing Act. The Fair Credit Billing Act requires businesses which extend credit to respond within 30 days to any customer's complaint or inquiry about a billing error. The Truth-in-Lending Act requires businesses to provide the customer with all the information that applies to their account and send regular updated statements showing the account status. The purpose of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act is to make the granting of credit fair by prohibiting the denial of credit based on an applicant's gender, race, age, marital status, or national origin. The Fair Credit Reporting Act gives consumers the right to inspect the files of their credit history at any credit agency and to have any mistakes corrected. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance)

55. Which of the following is an example of insurance fraud: 
A. A woman exaggerates the value of diamond jewelry stolen from her home.
B. A driver accidentally scratches another car in a parking lot and does not report it to law enforcement.
C. An employee is injured at work and files a claim to collect disability payments.
D. A man crashes into a fence and files a claim for car repairs with his auto collision policy.

55. A
A woman exaggerates the value of diamond jewelry stolen from her home. Insurance fraud is a crime that occurs when someone knowingly makes a false or misleading statement to an insurance company. It is legal for an employee to collect disability payments if they are injured at work and file a claim. Since auto collision policies provide payment for any damage caused by the driver, it is legal for a car owner to file a claim and collect payment if they damage their own vehicle. When a person damages another person's car without reporting it to law enforcement, it's considered a hit and run which is a crime unrelated to insurance fraud. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Hanley, R. (2016, July 9). When a little white lie leads to jail time: What insurance fraud is and how to
avoid it. Retrieved October 25, 2023, from https://www.trustedchoice.com/f/p/what-is-insurance-fraud/ 

56. Marty recently took out a personal loan from his credit union for $7,500. The interest rate for the loan is 10.875%, and the term of the loan is 36 weeks. Using the exact interest method, what is the amount of interest on the loan, rounded up to the nearest cent? 
A. $564.66
B. $56.32
C. $563.12
D. $570.94

56. C
$563.12. To find the amount of interest on the loan using the exact interest method, use the simple interest formula "Interest = Principal X Rate X Time." When using the exact interest method, time is equal to the term of the loan expressed as days divided by the number of days in a year, which is 365. So, in this case, first convert the term of the loan from weeks to days by multiplying by the number of days in a week (36 X 7 = 252 days). Then, calculate the factor Time by dividing the number of days of the loan by the number of days in a year (252 / 365 = 0.6904109). Next, multiply the principal amount of the loan by the interest rate and the time to determine the amount of interest on the loan ($7,500 X 10.875% X 0.6904109 = $563.11638). Finally, round this answer up to the nearest cent to determine the amount of interest on the loan ($563.11638 = $563.12). 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 8
SOURCE: GreggU. (2019, July 1). Calculating exact interest. Retrieved October 23, 2023, from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xgXT4W756jQ 

57. A 401(k) is an example of a 
A. profit-sharing plan.
B. defined benefits plan.
C. social security benefit.
D. defined contribution plan.

57. D
Defined contribution plan. A defined contribution plan involves people funding their retirement savings with their own money, sometimes with additional contributions from employers. A 401(k) plan is an example of this type of plan because tax-free contributions are deducted from an employee's payroll and invested in securities. They are also sometimes matched by employers. In contrast, a defined benefits plan defines the amount of retirement income that will be paid, regardless of the success of the investments made. Social security benefits are federally funded retirement benefits. A profit-sharing plan involves employers making discretionary contributions to retirement savings, without any salary deferral or set amount of contributions. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: BlackRock. (2023). What is a defined contribution plan? Retrieved October 24, 2023, from
https://www.blackrock.com/us/individual/education/retirement/defined-contribution-plan PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 14 

58. Which of the following is a characteristic of taxes: 
A. Applied only to tangibles
B. Restricted to businesses
C. Levied by governments
D. Encouraged by consumers

58. C
Levied by governments. Taxes are levied by various levels of government for different reasons. One reason is to generate revenue to fund programs. All levels of government, from small cities to the national level, need money to operate. They obtain this money by levying taxes on individuals and businesses. Taxes are not restricted to businesses or applied only to tangibles. Although consumers pay taxes, they usually do not encourage additional taxes. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-EC-072—Pay Your Share (Business Taxes)

59. Morgan received an email that claimed to be from her credit card company. The email said that her account would be cancelled immediately if she didn't follow a link and enter her credit card and social security numbers. After Morgan did so, she found out that the email wasn't actually from her credit card company. Instead, it was a scam designed to steal her personal information. Morgan was a victim of 
A. hacking.
B. baiting.
C. phishing.
D. skimming.

59. C
Phishing. Phishing occurs when a scammer sends out an email made to look like it's from a legitimate company, such as a credit card company, to gain personal information. The phisher typically sends readers to a fake website that asks them to enter personal information, which can include credit card numbers, social security numbers, bank account numbers, etc. It's a good idea to be especially suspicious of any requests for personal information you receive online. Avoid giving out personal information unless you contact the company yourself. Skimming occurs when a thief runs a credit card through a "skimmer" to steal personal information. Hacking involves a person gaining access to a computer system to steal information. Baiting is not a term commonly used to describe phishing. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Microsoft. (2023). Protect yourself from phishing. Retrieved October 24, 2023, from
https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/protect-yourself-from-phishing-0c7ea947-ba98-3bd97184-430e1f860a44 

60. Which of the following is an advantage of investing in bonds: 
A. You can access your money any time.
B. They are very low risk.
C. They are insured by the FDIC.
D. They offer extremely high rates of return.

60. B
They are very low risk. Bonds are very low-risk investments. As a matter of fact, they are often referred to as "guaranteed money." However, you can't access your money at any time, and bonds are not FDIC-insured. Bonds are lending investments with little risk; therefore, they don't offer extremely high rates of return. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 8
SOURCE: LAP-FI-077—Invest for Success (Types of Investments)

61. What credit legislation prohibits the denial of credit based on the applicant's race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, age, or public assistance status? 
A. Fair Credit Reporting Act
B. Fair Credit Billing Act
C. Truth-in-Lending Act
D. Equal Credit Opportunity Act

61. D
Equal Credit Opportunity Act. The main purpose of this legislation is to make the granting of credit fair by prohibiting the denial of credit based on the applicant's race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, age, or public assistance status. The Truth-in-Lending Act requires businesses to give credit customers specific information regarding purchases (interest rates, penalties, etc.). The Fair Credit Reporting Act gives consumers the right to inspect and update their credit files. The Fair Credit Billing Act gives businesses which extend credit a specific time by which they must respond to customer complaints about billing errors. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit is Due (Credit and Its Importance)
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 15 

62. Which of the following is a question that investors should ask prospective financial planners: 
A. Where did you attend school?
B. How are your fees structured?
C. What is your income?
D. How many references do I need to provide?

62. B
How are your fees structured? Because financial planners are compensated in different ways, it is important to consider the fee structure when selecting a financial-services provider. Some financial planners charge a flat fee, while others base their fees on the number and size of transactions. Some financial planners charge for research and consulting time. Therefore, it is important to ask financial planners about their fee structures, so investors can determine if they can afford the fees. A financial planner may provide references for a potential client, but the potential client does not generally need to provide the financial planner with references. It is inappropriate to ask the financial planner about their personal income. Where the financial planner attended school is usually irrelevant. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 12
SOURCE: Coombes, A. (2023, August 7). 10 questions to ask a financial advisor. Retrieved October 24, 2023,
from https://www.nerdwallet.com/article/investing/10-questions-ask-financial-advisor 

63. Financial managers who are legally responsible for their clients' investments must demonstrate fiduciary responsibility, which involves 
A. making risky investments without their clients' knowledge.
B. acting in the best interests of their clients.
C. speaking with their clients once a year to review their portfolios.
D. selling financial products that generate the highest commissions.

63. B
Acting in the best interests of their clients. In the financial industry, a fiduciary is a financial professional who has been given legal authority to make financial transactions on behalf of an individual or business—the owner of the financial product (e.g., stock). Because the fiduciary has been given legal authority to act on behalf of a client, they must act in the best interest of the client. Fiduciary responsibility involves making wise financial decisions and obtaining financial products that will help the client achieve their financial goals. A fiduciary does not focus on selling products that generate the highest commissions or make risky investments without the client's knowledge. A responsible, ethical fiduciary is transparent and trustworthy and continuously communicates with their clients rather than communicating with them only once a year. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 12
SOURCE: Barone, A. (2023, May 24). What is a fiduciary duty? Examples and types explained. Retrieved October
23, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/042915/what-are-some-examples-fiduciaryduty.asp 

64. Generally, price inflation means that people 
A. can afford fewer goods.
B. make more money.
C. can afford more goods.
D. make less money.

64. A
Can afford fewer goods. Inflation is an increase in the cost of goods and services. If the prices of these goods and services go up, then people are able to buy fewer of them with their limited wages. Price deflation, which involves prices for goods and services decreasing, means people can purchase more with their wages. The change in price does not mean there is a change in wages. Wage inflation and deflation affects the amount of money people have to spend. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: McBride, C. (2019, January 11). How does inflation effect the purchasing power of money? Retrieved
October 23, 2023, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/inflation-effect-purchasing-power-money696.html 

65. Brandon is developing a financial plan, and one of his goals is to save enough money to buy a new car in two years. Has Brandon set a SMART goal? 
A. Yes, his goal is attainable and specific.
B. No, his goal is not attainable or results-oriented.
C. No, his goal is not specific or measurable.
D. Yes, his goal is time-bounded and measurable.

65. C
No, his goal is not specific or measurable. A financial goal is a short- or long-term objective that is measured in terms of money. Effective financial goals are SMART goals—specific, measurable, attainable, results-oriented, and time-bounded. The goal is time-bounded because Brandon wants to save money to buy a car two years from now. It is results-oriented because Brandon will have something to show for his effort in two years—a car. However, the goal is not specific or measurable, because Brandon has not indicated how much he wants to save for the car. Also, Brandon has not indicated how he plans to save for the car, such as placing 15% of his weekly paycheck in a special savings account. There is not enough information to determine if the goal is attainable, because it is not specific. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: Eby, K. (2019, January 9). The essential guide to writing SMART goals. Retrieved October 24, 2023,
from https://www.smartsheet.com/blog/essential-guide-writing-smart-goals PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 16 

66. Which of the following is a tool that often helps individuals organize and manage their mortgage, utility, and insurance bills: 
A. Scatter chart
B. Credit report
C. Monthly payment schedule
D. Daily work calendar

66. C
Monthly payment schedule. Developing a monthly payment schedule can help individuals organize, manage, and pay their bills on time. Computer spreadsheets, schedule templates, and calendars are several effective ways to manage the bill-paying process. Regardless of the format used, individuals should note the payee's name, amount due, due date, date paid, and the method of payment. If writing a check, the check number should also be noted on the payment schedule. Individuals do not organize and manage their bills by using a scatter chart, work calendar, or credit report. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 8
SOURCE: Haagensen, E. (2021, September 30). Procrastinator's guide to bill payment. Retrieved October 24,
2023, https://www.investopedia.com/articles/pf/08/stop-paying-bills-late.asp 

67. Which of the following is a benefit of using a debit card instead of a credit card: 
A. There is no risk of going into debt.
B. You can spend more money at a time.
C. Expenses can be paid at a later date.
D. You can build your financial rating.

67. A
There is no risk of going into debt. Debit cards withdraw money from your account in real time, so you will be cut off and notified if you spend too much. The most you will pay is an overdraft fee. In contrast, credit cards allow you to borrow money and pay it back later, with interest. You can spend more than you actually have, which results in debt. Credit cards, rather than debit cards, allow you to build your credit score to prove your financial stability to future employers and landlords. Debit cards do not allow you to pay expenses at a later date or to spend more money at a time than credit cards. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 8
SOURCE: Burnette, M. (2023, September 19). What is a debit card and how does it work? Retrieved October 23,
2023, from https://www.nerdwallet.com/article/banking/what-is-a-debit-card 

68. Which of the following is a source of career information that would best help people who are currently employed identify better paying careers that suit their skills: 
A. School guidance offices
B. Temporary employment agencies
C. Career centers
D. Occupational Outlook Handbook

68. D
Occupational Outlook Handbook. This publication is available in most libraries and online and provides up-to-date information about the number of openings, advancement potential, and pay rates for a wide range of careers. It is revised regularly by the U.S. Department of Labor based on current job statistics. Career centers and school guidance offices are helpful sources of information for people who are still in school or ready to graduate. Temporary jobs can provide experience but are limited in scope and probably would not be helpful to people who are currently employed. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. (2023, September 6). Occupational outlook handbook. Retrieved
October 25, 2023, from https://www.bls.gov/ooh/ 

69. Which of the following statements regarding financial institutions is true: 
A. Financial institutions facilitate the flow of money in the economy.
B. The primary role of financial institutions is to regulate saving and investing.
C. A financial institution with low value is doing a good job of managing its risk.
D. Financial institutions are controlled by their members.

69. A
Financial institutions facilitate the flow of money in the economy. Government/Semigovernment financial institutions, but not all financial institutions, carry out regulatory and supervisory functions. A financial institution with a high value, rather than a low value, is probably doing a good job of managing its risk and making money for stockholders. Credit unions are financial institutions that are owned by their members; however, not all financial institutions are credit unions. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 8
SOURCE: Connecticut Department of Banking. (2023). ABC's of banking: Banks and our economy. Retrieved
October 24, 2023, from https://portal.ct.gov/DOB/Consumer/Consumer-Education/ABCs-of-Banking—Banks-and-Our-Economy PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 17 

70. Sarah crashed her car into another vehicle. Fred, the driver of the other vehicle, was hurt in the crash that Sarah caused. What type of car insurance will assist Sarah in paying medical expenses for Fred? 
A. Bodily injury liability insurance
B. Property damage liability
C. Uninsured/Underinsured coverage
D. Personal injury liability

70. A
Bodily injury liability insurance. Bodily injury liability insurance is a type of coverage for a situation where a driver causes injury to another driver. Property damage liability deals with situations in which a driver causes property damage to another person's property. Personal injury liability is not a real coverage, but personal injury protection is. Uninsured/Underinsured coverage is used when a driver is harmed by an uninsured/underinsured person. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 8
SOURCE: Brady, R. (2023, July 7). Liability car insurance covers: What it covers and how much you need.
Retrieved October 25, 2023, from https://www.nerdwallet.com/article/insurance/auto/liability-carinsurance 

71. Each month, part of Meera's paycheck goes toward local taxes. This deduction affects her 
A. leave balance.
B. net income.
C. gross income.
D. salary.

71. B
Net income. Net income, also known as take-home pay, is money remaining after deductions (such as retirement account contributions or federal, state, or local taxes) have been taken out of the gross income, or the total amount of money an employee is paid before deductions. A salary is a money payment for labor, and a leave balance is the amount of paid or unpaid time employees have earned. Neither salary nor leave balance is affected by paycheck deductions. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: Kenton, W. (2022, May 20). Net income (NI) definition: Uses, and how to calculate it. Retrieved October
24, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/n/netincome.asp 

72. Ajay just won a school prize drawing and is awarded $100. To maximize the value of his money, when should he accept the $100? 
A. In five years
B. In six months
C. In one year
D. Now

72. D
Now. The time value of money explains the idea that money available now is worth more than the identical amount in the future because of its earning potential. If Ajay accepts the money now, it has the potential to earn interest over time. If he accepts the money at any later point (six months, one year, five years, etc.), then Ajay is missing out on the earning potential of the original $100. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 8
SOURCE: Fernando, J. (2023, March 28). Time value of money explained with formula and examples. Retrieved
October 24, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/t/timevalueofmoney.asp 

73. Which of the following is least likely to be covered by health insurance: 
A. Emergency medical care
B. Routine doctor visits
C. Prescription eyeglasses
D. Lab tests for bloodwork

73. C
Prescription eyeglasses. Health insurance often does not cover the cost for prescription eyeglasses. Separate health insurance policies can be purchased to cover services such as dental and eye care. Emergency medical care, routine doctor visits, and lab tests for bloodwork are covered by most health care plans. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Zastrow, M.A. (2020, March 11). Medical vs. vision insurance: What you should know. Retrieved
October 25, 2023, from https://www.downtowneyes.com/blog/eye-care/medical-vs-vision-insurancewhat-you-should-know/ 

74. What is the main purpose of diversifying investments? 
A. To reduce risk
B. To eliminate income tax
C. To increase liquidity
D. To avoid penalty fees

74. A
To reduce risk. Diversifying investments means investing in multiple places rather than putting all of your money in one investment option. For example, if you invest all of your money in one company that then fails, you will lose everything. If you invest in multiple companies, it is unlikely that they all will fail. Diversification, therefore, reduces risk. Diversifying investments does not necessarily help you avoid penalty fees, increase liquidity, or eliminate income tax. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 8
SOURCE: McWhinney, J. (2021, August 25). The many ways to achieve investment portfolio diversification.
Retrieved October 24, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/articles/basics/05/diversification.asp PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 18 

75. The single most important aspect of making a financial plan and setting goals is 
A. learning to make hard choices.
B. making enough money.
C. getting started now.
D. choosing a career path.

75. C
Getting started now. The single most important aspect of making a financial plan and setting goals is getting started now. Learning to make hard choices, making enough money, and choosing a career path are important aspects of goal setting, but they are not as important as simply getting started. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 8
SOURCE: Marquit, M. (2023, March 3). Financial goals for students: How and why to set them. Retrieved October
24, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/financial-goals-for-students-7151682 

76. One difference between saving and investing is that investing 
A. has less risk.
B. helps you meet short-term financial goals.
C. has a higher rate of return.
D. is not important for retirement.

76. C
Has a higher rate of return. Investing has a higher rate of return than savings accounts and will yield much more wealth in the long run. Investing has more risk than saving, not less. It does not help you meet short-term financial goals; rather, it helps you meet long-term financial goals. Finally, investing is very important for retirement because saving alone will not bring enough wealth. Investing makes it possible to retire comfortably. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 8
SOURCE: Royal, J. (2023, January 25). Saving vs. investing: How are they different and which is better?
Retrieved October 24, 2023, from https://www.bankrate.com/investing/saving-vs-investing/ 

77. Which of the following financial services providers is most likely to provide a small, local coffee shop with business loans, checking and savings accounts, and overdraft protection: 
A. Marley and Winston Commercial Bank
B. Allen and Mellon Brokerage Firm
C. Walker, Steinbrenner, and Houghton, CPA Firm
D. Eastern Region Investment Bank

77. A
Marley and Winston Commercial Bank. Commercial banks provide a variety of financial services for businesses and individuals, such as checking and savings accounts, loans, credit cards, and overdraft protection. Investment banks primarily work with corporations by underwriting securities, aiding in mergers and acquisitions, etc. CPA (Certified Public Accountant) firms provide accounting services. A brokerage firm buys and sells securities on behalf of investors. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 8
SOURCE: Pritchard, J. (2022, January 29). What are the different types of banks? Retrieved October 24, 2023,
from https://www.thebalancemoney.com/types-of-banks-315214 

78. The disadvantage to paying just the minimum amount due on your credit card each month is that you 
A. pay interest on purchases.
B. establish a credit rating.
C. defer cash payments.
D. earn quarterly dividends.

78. A
Pay interest on purchases. Credit is the arrangement by which individuals or businesses can purchase now and pay later. Many types of businesses (e.g., banks, large retailers) offer credit cards to consumers and businesses to purchase goods and services. Usually, the credit card issuer sends the credit card holder a monthly statement. The information on the statement includes a list of the purchases made during the billing cycle and the amount owed for the purchases, which includes the interest charges. If the credit card holder pays the minimum amount due, the amount of interest owed accumulates on the balance due until the debt is paid off. Because interest rates can be high, this can be a disadvantage to the credit card holder. It is important to establish a good credit rating in order to borrow money in the future from other lenders. Therefore, establishing a credit rating is not necessarily a disadvantage. Credit card holders do not earn quarterly dividends on their credit cards. Temporary deferment of cash payment is an advantage to credit card holders. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 8
SOURCE: Bloomenthal, A. (2023, May 6). Credit card: What it is, how it works, and how to get one. Retrieved
October 23, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/c/creditcard.asp 

79. Employers and employees must pay federal taxes that are levied by the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA). Which of the following are included in FICA taxes: 
A. Federal Unemployment and Worker's Compensation
B. Medicare and Federal Unemployment
C. Social Security and Medicare
D. Worker's Compensation and Social Security

79. C
Social Security and Medicare. Employers are responsible for paying for half of their employees' FICA taxes, which includes Social Security and Medicare taxes. Employers (not employees) must pay unemployment taxes and contribute to the worker's compensation fund. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: Van Blaricom, D. (2022, December 5). Payroll taxes and employer responsibilities. Retrieved October
25, 2023, from https://www.thebalancesmb.com/payroll-taxes-3193126 PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 19 

80. Your web search results contain URLs from a variety of sources. Which of the following sources should provide the most reliable data: 
A. A Wikipedia site
B. A term paper
C. A government agency
D. A personal blog

80. C
A government agency. A government agency, such as the Bureau of Labor Statistics, should contain unbiased, accurate information. A term paper and a personal blog would probably be biased based on the writer's viewpoint. Although Wikipedia is an open source of information that is constantly updated, you might have received wiki information when it was inaccurate. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: Goodwill Community Foundation. (n.d.). How to judge online information. Retrieved October 25, 2023,
from https://edu.gcfglobal.org/en/digital-media-literacy/judging-online-information/1/ 

81. What is a major goal of the Federal Trade Commission? 
A. To improve product quality
B. To monitor product safety
C. To lower prices
D. To protect consumers

81. D
To protect consumers. A major goal of the Federal Trade Commission is to protect consumers by helping them to make good buying decisions. The FTC enforces laws regulating advertising activities, sales and credit practices, marketing practices, and warranty practices. The Consumer Product Safety Commission monitors product safety. Businesses raise or lower prices and improve product quality without government intervention. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: Federal Trade Commission. (2023). Bureau of Consumer Protection. Retrieved October 25, 2023, from
https://www.ftc.gov/about-ftc/bureaus-offices/bureau-consumer-protection 

82. Which of the following is a disadvantage of investing in stocks: 
A. Staying ahead of inflation
B. Less risk than bonds
C. Growing with the economy
D. Taxes on profitable stock sales

82. D
Taxes on profitable stock sales. Disadvantages of investing in stocks include high risk, time involved in research, and taxes on profitable stock sales. Advantages of investing in stocks include growing with the economy, staying ahead of inflation, and liquidity. Investing in stocks is riskier than investing in bonds. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 12
SOURCE: Amadeo, K. (2022, March 30). Pros and cons of investing in stocks. Retrieved October 25, 2023, from
https://www.thebalancemoney.com/stock-investing-for-the-individual-investor-3306182 

83. Which of the following is a commonly used credit card: 
A. Shell Oil
B. Visa
C. Diners Club
D. Macy's

83. B
Visa. Visa is one of the most commonly used credit cards. Others include MasterCard, American Express, and Discover. Diners Club is considered a travel and entertainment card. Macy's credit card is for a credit account offered by that chain of department stores. Shell Oil's credit card is for credit purchases only at its outlets. However, Shell also offers a Shell MasterCard for use wherever MasterCard is accepted. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 8
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance)

84. Which of the following individuals is most likely to use long-term disability insurance: 
A. Rose, whose doctor made a mistake during her surgery
B. Amin, who is unable to work because of illness
C. Juan, who suffers from Alzheimer's disease
D. Brittany, who was injured in a car crash

84. B
Amin, who is unable to work because of illness. Disability insurance is intended to be used if a person cannot work because of a disability or illness. An automobile insurance policy is more likely to pay for injuries caused by a car crash. A doctor's mistake during a surgery would be covered through a civil lawsuit, and long-term care insurance would be more useful for an Alzheimer's patient. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Fernando, J. (2021, February 21). What is disability insurance? Definition and how it protects you.
Retrieved October 25, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/d/disability-insurance.asp PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 20 

85. If a stock price rises and falls sharply within a 52-week period, it is said to be 
A. healthy.
B. volatile.
C. solid.
D. stable.

85. B
Volatile. Prices that rise and fall sharply are said to be volatile. Stable, healthy, or solid are not words that would be used to describe a volatile stock. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 8
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2023, March 31). Volatility: Meaning in finance and how it works with stocks. Retrieved
October 24, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/v/volatility.asp 

86. Dan is working part-time delivering pizzas. He has a new credit card with 0% interest, a credit limit of $5,000, and no minimum payment required for the first six months. The card also grants 1% cash back for all purchases. How can he wisely handle his account for the first six months? 
A. Pay the balance in full each month
B. Make no payments until the six-month period is over
C. Make small monthly payments
D. Earn more cash back by using all of the available credit

86. A
Pay the balance in full each month. To use a credit card responsibly, an individual should only make purchases that are within their budget and that they are able to pay in full each month. It is wise to avoid large credit card balances since they can be difficult to pay and eventually incur interest. It's unwise to delay payments on a credit card and run up a large balance. Waiting until the six-month period is over will likely result in high interest charges. Using all available credit is unwise because it can negatively impact a person's credit score and create a large balance that charges interest and is difficult to pay. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 8
SOURCE: Washington State Department of Financial Institutions. (n.d.). Using credit cards wisely. Retrieved
October 24, 2023, from https://dfi.wa.gov/financial-education/information/using-credit-cards-wisely 

87. Which of the following is often used to determine how long it will take to double your money at a given interest or return rate: 
A. Earnings per share
B. Yield percentage
C. Debt ratio
D. Rule of 72

87. D
Rule of 72. The Rule of 72 is an equation that tells you how long it will take to double an investment or money in savings at a given interest or return rate. To determine how long it will take for the investment or money in savings to double, divide the number 72 by the interest rate or rate of return. Earnings per share is a financial ratio that tells you how much profit goes to each share of common stock. The yield percentage for a stock is the annual dividend divided by the current stock price. Debt ratios are a class of financial ratios that compare what a company owns to what it owes. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 8
SOURCE: Kenton, W. (2023, March 9). The Rule of 72: Definition, usefulness, and how to use it. Retrieved
October 20, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/r/ruleof72.asp 

88. Which of the following explains what credit is: 
A. An arrangement to buy now, pay later
B. The amount due after a partial credit payment
C. The amount charged for use of a credit card
D. A legal claim to an item of property

88. A
An arrangement to buy now, pay later. Credit is the arrangement by which businesses or individuals can purchase now and pay later. Businesses use credit to obtain goods and services to sell, and consumers use credit to purchase those goods and services. A legal claim to an item of property is a lien. It protects the seller if the buyer does not complete their payments. An annual fee is the amount of money charged on a yearly basis for the privilege of using certain kinds of credit such as a bank card. The outstanding balance is the remaining amount that is owed to the creditor after the credit user has made a partial payment on their account. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 8
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance)

89. To determine your disposable income, what do you need to subtract from gross income? 
A. All taxes paid
B. Deductions for insurance
C. Retirement contributions
D. All taxes and deductions

89. A
All taxes paid. To determine your disposable income (money left to satisfy your needs and wants), you must subtract all taxes paid from gross income. Optional deductions for retirement contributions or for insurance are deducted from disposable income. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: Kenton, W. (2023, July 24). What is disposable income, and why is it important? Retrieved October 24,
2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/d/disposableincome.asp#:~:text=For%20an%20individual%2C%20 gross%20income,left%20represents%20your%20disposable%20income. PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 21 

90. Which of the following financial institutions typically deals only with institutional clients such as corporations and governments: 
A. Brokerage company
B. Investment bank
C. Investment company
D. Commercial bank

90. B
Investment bank. An investment bank does not typically deal with the general public; it acts as an intermediary for institutional clients such as corporations and governments by underwriting debt, issuing securities, facilitating mergers, and acting as a broker. Commercial banks provide banking services to the general public. Brokerage and investment companies provide the general public with investment opportunities. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: Horton, M. (2023, September 19). Different types of financial institutions. Retrieved October 24, 2023,
from https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/061615/what-are-major-categories-financialinstitutions-and-what-are-their-primary-roles.asp 

91. If Sam wants to compare today's closing price of a particular stock with yesterday's closing price, what column in a stock table should he look at? 
A. Net change
B. Price-earnings ratio
C. 52-Week HI/LO
D. Yield percentage

91. A
Net change. Net change shows the difference between today's closing price and the previous day's price. The price-earnings ratio (PE ratio) is determined by dividing the last closing price of the stock by the earnings per share. Investors often study the PE ratio to get an idea of whether the stock is overvalued or undervalued, compared to its competitors. The yield percentage is a financial ratio that shows the dividends that the company pays each year relative to the price per share. The 52-week HI/LO column shows the highest and lowest prices for the year. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 8
SOURCE: Scott, G. (2022, April 25). Net change: What it is, how it works, charts. Retrieved October 24, 2023,
from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/n/netchange.asp 

92. Entrepreneurs typically work 
A. relatively few hours.
B. to employ under 500 employees.
C. on their businesses.
D. in their businesses.

92. C
On their businesses. Entrepreneurs work on their businesses rather than in them. Entrepreneurs typically work long and irregular hours, including weekends. Entrepreneurs work to grow their businesses. While their businesses may start small, they often turn into organizations that employ thousands of workers. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: LAP-PD-066—Own Your Own (Career Opportunities in Entrepreneurship)

93. Which of the following is an advantage of buying versus renting a home: 
A. Responsibility for maintenance and repairs
B. No need to worry about property tax
C. Fewer upfront costs and less paperwork
D. Potential to build equity and credit

93. D
Potential to build equity and credit. When you buy a home, you are making a long-term investment that can help you build a solid credit score. A high credit score can help you get approved for lower-interest loans and credit cards because it is an indicator to lenders that you are financially responsible. Other advantages of buying versus renting include greater stability, control over your own property, and possible tax benefits. However, buying a home also requires more money upfront than renting—and you could lose money over time if the value of your home declines. You are also responsible for maintenance and repairs when you own your home, which can be time-consuming and expensive. Owning a home also means that you must pay property taxes, which renters do not need to worry about. Benefits of renting include fewer upfront costs, less paperwork, maintenance and repairs included in rent, and no property taxes. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: Franklin, J.B. (2022, July 25). Renting vs. buying a home: Which is right for you? Retrieved October 25,
2023, from https://www.bankrate.com/real-estate/renting-vs-buying-a-home/ PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 22 

94. Chris wants to open a small business, and he has a very good business plan that is likely to succeed. He will most likely go to a(n) __________ for a loan. 
A. investment bank
B. mortgage company
C. insurance provider
D. traditional bank

94. D
Traditional bank. Traditional banks such as Wells Fargo, Bank of America, etc. are typically good options for smallbusiness loans. Investment banks specialize in helping larger corporations and governments issue securities. Insurance providers do not give out loans. A mortgage company specializes in real-estate (property) loans. There is not enough information provided about Chris's business venture to determine if he wants to purchase an existing property or build a new facility. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Betterton, K. (2023, April 18). How to apply for a small business loan for your startup. Retrieved
October 24, 2023, from https://www.uschamber.com/co/start/startup/how-to-apply-for-a-small-businessloan 

95. Which of the following types of insurance is intended to provide an income to an employee's dependents: 
A. Life
B. Medical
C. Collision
D. Home

95. A
Life. Life insurance is intended to provide an income to an employee's dependents if the employee dies. An employee purchases life insurance to guarantee that surviving dependents will have sufficient income to maintain their standard of living. Some businesses offer life insurance as part of their benefit plan, but in most cases employees must obtain their own life-insurance policies. Medical, home, and collision insurance are not designed to provide an income to an employee's dependents. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 8
SOURCE: Fontinelle, A. (2023, September 21). Life insurance: What it is, how it works, and how to buy a
policy. Retrieved October 24, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/l/lifeinsurance.asp#:~:text=Life%20insurance%20provides%20 financial%20support,Parents%20with%20minor%20children 

96. If you are having trouble sticking to your budget, you should 
A. pay in cash as frequently as possible.
B. use a mobile app that tracks purchases.
C. keep your budget to yourself.
D. only spend money on basic living expenses.

96. B
Use a mobile app that tracks purchases. There are many tools available that can help you manage your budget, including mobile apps and websites. Only spending money on basic living expenses is not realistic; you should be able to treat yourself and buy something nice for yourself once in a while. Paying in cash can make it more difficult to keep track of purchases because they are not automatically tracked by online banking or apps. Finally, keeping your budget to yourself can make it more difficult to stick to your budget because friends might pressure you into spending money or going to expensive places. Letting them know that you are saving money gives them the opportunity to support and encourage you. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: Bocco, D. (2023, October 7). How can I make myself stick to a budget? Retrieved October 24, 2023,
from http://www.wisegeek.com/how-can-i-make-myself-stick-to-a-budget.htm 

97. Titus evaluates his goals, risk tolerance, and timeline, then spreads his assets across 50% stocks, 35% bonds, and 15% cash. In other words, Titus has properly __________ funds in his portfolio. 
A. allocated
B. diversified
C. protected
D. liquidated

97. A
Allocated. Asset allocation refers to the percentage of stocks, bonds, and cash in one's portfolio. By spreading his assets across stocks, bonds, and cash, Titus has allocated funds in his portfolio. If the situation described how Titus split the investments within each category (stocks, bonds, cash), that would be diversification. Liquidation means turning stocks, bonds, and real estate into cash, and it is generally used when a business goes bankrupt or when an investor sells their entire portfolio. There is always a degree of risk when investing, so it is unclear whether Titus protected funds in his portfolio. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 12
SOURCE: New York Life. (2023). Asset allocation & diversification: The pillars of your financial plan. Retrieved
October 24, 2023, from https://www.newyorklife.com/articles/asset-allocation-and-diversification PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 23 

98. In which of the following situations would consumers' purchasing power decrease: 
A. Interest rates decrease from 8% to 7%.
B. Pay raise is 5% and inflation rate is 6%.
C. Federal income-tax rates decrease by 0.5%.
D. Take-home pay remains at a constant level.

98. B
Pay raise is 5% and inflation rate is 6%. When the inflation rate is higher than the percent of raise that employees receive, the purchasing power of those employees decreases. This has a negative effect on the economy because the higher inflation rate means higher prices for goods and services. Although the employees received a raise, the raise was not equal to the rate of inflation so employees actually lost purchasing power. They have more money to spend, but the goods and services they want cost more than their pay increase. When interest rates decrease, consumers' purchasing power usually increases. Consumers' purchasing power does not change if their takehome pay remains at a constant level and all other variables remain the same. A decrease in federal income-tax rates usually increases consumers' purchasing power. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: McEachern, W.A. (2018). Contemporary economics (4th ed.) [Lesson 15.2.2]. Boston, MA: Cengage
Learning, Inc. 

99. What must Preston Enterprises pay to the insurance company to maintain its business liability insurance? 
A. Commission
B. Fine
C. Stipend
D. Premiums

99. D
Premiums. Insurance premiums are the fees that the insured pays to the insurer to obtain insurance coverage. A commission is a percentage of the total sale amount paid to the individual or business that makes the sale. A fine is a monetary sum paid to a government agency when an individual or business violates a law. A stipend is a fixed sum of money paid as a salary or allowance. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 8
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2023, April 20). Premium: Definition, meanings in finance, and types. Retrieved October 24,
2023, from http://www.investopedia.com/terms/p/premium.asp 

100. Which of the following is an example of a regulation that protects investors: 
A. Brokerage firms are required to abide by equal opportunity employment laws.
B. Newspapers and magazines are not allowed to report on stock market trends.
C. Companies must honestly and publicly disclose their business information.
D. Individuals are not allowed to purchase and sell more than five stocks per week.

100. C
Companies must honestly and publicly disclose their business information. To protect investors from unethical trading activity, government agencies create and enforce laws that securities and investment firms must adhere to. One regulation intended to protect investors is the requirement for companies to honestly and publicly disclose their financial information. This requirement protects individuals from investing in a company that claims it is financially healthier than it truly is. Individuals are not limited to buying and selling five stocks per week. Like all companies, brokerage firms must abide by equal opportunity employment laws—but these laws do not specifically protect investors. Newspapers and magazines are not prohibited from reporting on stock market trends. 
SOURCE: Investing Grade 12
SOURCE: Inc. (n.d.). SEC disclosure laws and regulations. Retrieved October 23, 2023, from
https://www.inc.com/encyclopedia/sec-disclosure-laws-and-regulations.html 