12. Which of the following is an example of a law: 
A. You must wait in line to check out at the grocery store.
B. You must follow the speed limit while driving.
C. Your school's dress code does not allow sleeveless tops.
D. You cannot use profane language at school.

12. B
You must follow the speed limit while driving. Laws are products of written statutes passed by a governing body. Speed limits are examples of traffic laws. School dress codes and bans on profane language are not examples of laws; rather, these are rules. Waiting in line to check out at the grocery store is a store policy rather than a law. 
SOURCE: BL:163 Comply with the spirit and intent of laws and regulations
SOURCE: LAP-BL-163—Laying Down the Law (Complying With the Spirit and Intent of Laws and Regulations)

2. Which of the following statements about a private corporation is true: 
A. It does not offer shares to the general public.
B. It has a specific mission other than making a profit.
C. It can sell unlimited shares to the general public.
D. It is limited to 100 or fewer shareholders.

2. A
It does not offer shares to the general public. A private corporation, also known as a close corporation, is a type of corporation owned by a few people that does not offer its shares for sale to the general public. A "C" corporation, also known as a public corporation, can sell unlimited shares of stock to the general public— meaning there may be unlimited stockholders in just one company. A subchapter corporation, or "S" corporation, is a type of corporation that is limited to 100 or fewer shareholders, has limited shareholder liability, and requires little financial reporting. A nonprofit organization operates to accomplish a specific mission—other than to make a profit. Generally, the purpose of the organization is to help society, and income is used to fund programs and cover operational expenses. 
SOURCE: BL:003 Explain types of business ownership
SOURCE: LAP-BL-003—Own It Your Way (Types of Business Ownership)

20. If an organization is shipping goods internationally, it should be aware of __________ laws to avoid penalties and fines. 
A. export
B. import
C. civil
D. criminal

20. A
Export. Export laws regulate goods that are sent outside of a country to another nation. Therefore, if an organization is shipping goods internationally, it should be aware of export laws to avoid penalties and fines. Import laws regulate goods that are sent into a country by other countries. Civil laws deal with rights and duties of private entities, as well as possible disputes between them. Criminal laws deal with crime and the legal punishment of criminal offenses. 
SOURCE: BL:145 Explain the nature of import/export law
SOURCE: HG.org. (2024). Overview of US import and export laws and procedures. Retrieved January 25,
2024, from https://www.hg.org/legal-articles/overview-of-us-import-and-export-laws-and-procedures31140 

22. A contract is considered legally binding if 
A. the subject of the contract is ambiguous.
B. something of value is exchanged between parties.
C. only one party agrees on the offer.
D. at least one party is a business.

22. B
Something of value is exchanged between parties. A legally binding contract is any agreement that is legally enforceable by a court. In other words, if you sign a legally binding contract and don't fulfill your end of the bargain as promised in the contract, then the other party can take you to court. For a contract to be legally binding, something of value must be exchanged for something else of value. This can include money, goods, services, and promises. Both parties must agree to the offer, terms, and conditions of a contract for it to be legally binding. The subject of a legally binding contract must be clearly and unambiguously defined in the document to ensure that all parties understand what is being agreed upon. The parties in a legally binding contract can be a person or an entity (such as a business). There’s no requirement that a legally binding contract needs to include at least one business. 
SOURCE: BL:002 Describe the nature of legally binding contracts
SOURCE: Axiom Law. (2024). Legally binding documents: What you need to know. Retrieved January 25,
2024, from https://www.axiomlaw.com/guides/legally-binding-document 

48. Which of the following statements best represents administrative law: 
A. It pertains to the actions of government agencies.
B. It deals with crime and criminal offenses.
C. It deals with the rights and duties of private entities.
D. It settles possible disputes between private entities.

48. A
It pertains to the actions of government agencies. Administrative law pertains to the actions of government agencies, such as the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) or the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Administrative law grants these agencies certain powers, provides guidelines for the regulations they create, and defines the relationships they have with other governmental bodies. Civil law includes laws that deal with the rights and duties of private entities, as well as possible disputes between them, which include contract disputes, personal injury claims, property disputes, and civil rights violations. Criminal law deals with crime and the legal punishment of criminal offenses. 
SOURCE: BL:163 Comply with the spirit and intent of laws and regulations
SOURCE: LAP-BL-163—Laying Down the Law (Complying With the Spirit and Intent of Laws and Regulations)

68. A group of individuals organized by a charter and permitted to form a business that functions as a legal entity is known as a 
A. corporation.
B. sole proprietorship.
C. partnership.
D. licensing arrangement.

68. A
Corporation. Corporations can be complex to form, but they provide protection for their owners because each owner's liability is limited to the amount of their investment. A partnership is a business owned by two or more people. A sole proprietorship is a type of business ownership in which only one person owns and manages the business. A licensing arrangement is a business structure that requires the authorization or permission from an owner to another entity to use trademarked, copyrighted (e.g., logo, name), or patented material for a specific activity, during a specific time period, for the profit of both parties. 
SOURCE: BL:003 Explain types of business ownership
SOURCE: LAP-BL-003—Own It Your Way (Types of Business Ownership)

1. To sell sweatshirts, jackets, and T-shirts imprinted with ABC University's logo, the Collegiate Sportswear Company pays royalties to the university. What type of business ownership does this situation exemplify? 
A. Business-format franchise
B. Licensing agreement
C. General partnership
D. Multilevel marketing

1. B
Licensing agreement. A licensing agreement is a business structure that requires the authorization or permission from an owner to another entity to use trademarked (e.g., logo, name), copyrighted, or patented material for a specific activity, during a specific time period, for the profit of both parties. In the example, the sportswear company pays the university to use its logo, so the business arrangement involves a licensing agreement. A business-format franchise is a franchise arrangement in which the franchisee must operate under the trade name of the parent company that provides continuous assistance in setting up and operating the business. Multilevel marketing refers to a business, usually well-known, that pays commissions on sales earned to people at two or more levels. The sales representatives usually work independently of the company. A general partnership is a form of business ownership in which two or more individuals own the business, and each partner shares responsibility for the business's liabilities. 
SOURCE: BL:003 Explain types of business ownership
SOURCE: LAP-BL-003—Own It Your Way (Types of Business Ownership)

7. Before filing a civil lawsuit in court, Kwame's attorney sent a letter to Tosh's attorney. In the letter, Kwame's attorney explained why they believe they would win a lawsuit against Tosh. Kwame's attorney sent a(n) __________ letter to Tosh's lawyer. 
A. termination
B. official
C. demand
D. warning

7. C
Demand. A demand letter is a letter sent to a person informing them of a legal dispute. Demand letters are used in small-claim disputes to inform a person of the legal dispute and to ask for relief. Relief is the course of action that would satisfy someone who files a lawsuit. Generally, relief is restitution. A termination letter informs someone that they were fired from a job. An official letter is simply a formal letter. A demand letter is a step further than a warning letter. A warning letter would simply indicate a problem to the letter-reader. 
SOURCE: BL:159 Describe factors affecting the settlement of legal matters
SOURCE: Sanders, M. (2023, May 11). The do's and don'ts of writing a demand letter. Retrieved August 3,
2023, from https://www.legalzoom.com/articles/the-dos-and-donts-of-writing-a-demand-letter 

39. The person who files a lawsuit is the 
A. judge.
B. lawyer.
C. plaintiff.
D. defendant.

39. C
Plaintiff. The plaintiff is the person in a case who makes a claim against another person or organization and starts the litigation process. The defendant is the person who is accused of breaking the law. The lawyer is the person who represents the plaintiff or defendant. The judge is the person who rules on a case. 
SOURCE: BL:160 Describe the litigation process
SOURCE: Murray, J. (2020, December 2). What is plaintiff in a lawsuit? Retrieved August 4, 2023, from
https://www.thebalancemoney.com/what-is-a-plaintiff-in-a-lawsuit-398411 

49. Individuals and businesses who are sued have a legal right to present evidence on their behalf before a court can impose a penalty. In other words, these individuals and businesses have a right to 
A. procedural due process.
B. substantive due process.
C. the Takings Clause.
D. sovereign immunity.

49. A
Procedural due process. Procedural due process exists to ensure that individuals and businesses who are sued or charged with a crime have the opportunity to present evidence on their behalf before a court can impose a penalty. Requiring the government to go through a certain set of legal procedures before taking someone's liberty or property provides the person or business in question a greater chance of being treated fairly. Substantive due process exists to ensure that the government does not take away our fundamental rights (e.g., privacy). The Takings Clause requires the U.S. government to pay a fair price for any private property that it takes for public use. Sovereign immunity protects a federal government from lawsuits brought against it in foreign courts. 
SOURCE: BL:070 Describe the nature of legal procedure
SOURCE: Legal Information Institute. (n.d.). Procedural due process. Retrieved August 3, 2023, from
https://www.law.cornell.edu/wex/procedural_due_process BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 12 

74. Which of the following is a benefit of using mediation to resolve disputes: 
A. Decisions that carry more weight
B. Unbiased third-party decision maker
C. Cost-effectiveness and efficiency
D. Higher payouts for defendants

74. C
Cost-effectiveness and efficiency. Mediation is an informal process during which two parties meet with an impartial third party to find a mutually satisfactory solution to a problem. A benefit of mediation is that it is costeffective and efficient, especially compared to going to trial. Mediation does not lead to higher payouts for the defendant. Mediation cannot impose a legally binding decision, so it does not carry more weight. Finally, while there is a third-party mediator, that person does not make decisions. Instead, they help guide the negotiation process while the two parties come to a decision on their own. 
SOURCE: BL:161 Discuss the arbitration/mediation process
SOURCE: Soskin, L. (2017, December 6). Wondering what the difference is between mediation and arbitration?
Retrieved August 4, 2023, from https://www.huffpost.com/entry/wondering-what-thediffer_b_5291286 

21. Which of the following is typically the first step of the litigation process: 
A. One or more parties appeal
B. Initial motions are filed
C. Defendant files an answer
D. Plaintiff files a complaint

21. D
Plaintiff files a complaint. Litigation is the formal process during which legal disputes are involved. The first step of the process is when the plaintiff initiates a case and files a formal legal complaint. Then, the defendant is served with court paperwork or waives service of process, if applicable. Next, the defendant may file an answer to the complaint the plaintiff has made. Initial motions from both parties are then filed. Appeals can only be made after a decision has been reached at the conclusion of a trial. 
SOURCE: BL:160 Describe the litigation process
SOURCE: Bieber, C. (2023, April 24). What is litigation? Understanding the litigation process. Retrieved
October 4, 2023, from https://www.forbes.com/advisor/legal/litigation 2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 6 

23. Mediation is different from arbitration in that in mediation, the parties 
A. either win or lose.
B. partake in a formal process.
C. testify under oath.
D. control the outcome.

23. D
Control the outcome. Mediation is the process in which a neutral third party works to help opposing parties resolve a conflict, whereas arbitration calls on an uninvolved third party (called an arbitrator) to analyze the case and reach a verdict. In mediation, the mediator has no power to decide the outcome and helps the parties negotiate an outcome that is mutually satisfactory. Parties in mediation do not testify under oath. In arbitration, the parties present their cases to an arbitrator and testify under oath. The arbitrator listens to the evidence and has the power to decide the outcome. Arbitration has a clear winner or loser. Arbitration is a formal process, whereas mediation is an informal process. 
SOURCE: BL:161 Discuss the arbitration/mediation process
SOURCE: FINRA. (2023). Comparison between arbitration & mediation. Retrieved October 4, 2023, from
https://www.finra.org/arbitration-mediation/comparison-between-arbitration-mediation 

33. Copyright protection generally lasts __________ years after the death of the author. 
A. 25
B. 200
C. 70
D. 10

33. C
70. Copyright protection gives the copyright holder the exclusive right to copy, distribute, perform, or display the copyrighted work. That protection is maintained for the life of the author plus an additional 70 years after the death of the author. The protection does not last 10, 200, or 25 years. 
SOURCE: BL:051 Describe methods used to protect intellectual property
SOURCE: Entrepreneur. (n.d.). Intellectual property. Retrieved October 13, 2023, from
https://www.entrepreneur.com/encyclopedia/intellectual-property 

43. Which of the following statements about settling a case is true: 
A. It requires only one party to agree to settle.
B. It ends a dispute before the end of a trial.
C. It requires lawyers and courtroom procedure.
D. It is typically more expensive than going to trial.

43. B
It ends a dispute before the end of a trial. Settling a case means ending a dispute before the end of a trial. Trials are expensive, but cases that reach settlement can avoid the expense of a trial while still offering some compensation for the wrong that was committed. Settlements do not take place after a trial. Even though they can sometimes speed up the process, lawyers and courtroom procedure are not necessary to reach a settlement. Both parties must agree to the settlement. 
SOURCE: BL:159 Describe factors affecting the settlement of legal matters
SOURCE: Findlaw. (2016, June 20). What does it mean to settle a case? Retrieved October 4, 2023, from
https://www.findlaw.com/litigation/legal-system/what-does-it-mean-to-settle-a-case.html 

70. Which of the following is most likely to help you implement effective risk management: 
A. Membership in a professional organization
B. An advertising campaign
C. A long-term career plan
D. Up-to-date knowledge of laws and regulations

70. Copyright protection gives the copyright holder the exclusive right to copy, distribute, perform, or display the
copyrighted work. That protection is maintained for the life of the author plus an additional 70 years after the death of the author. The protection does not last 10, 200, or 25 years. 
SOURCE: BL:051 Describe methods used to protect intellectual property
SOURCE: Entrepreneur. (n.d.). Intellectual property. Retrieved October 13, 2023, from
https://www.entrepreneur.com/encyclopedia/intellectual-property 34. A Handling accounts payable. Working capital management focuses on the company’s current balance of assets and liabilities. This includes accounts payable, which is all the money owed by a business to others. Financing investments, paying shareholders, and demand forecasting fall under capital investment decisions because they are concerned with long-term projects. Demand forecasting is a supply chain management process of predicting and planning for demand; it is not directly tied to working capital management. 
SOURCE: FI:354 Explain the role of finance in business
SOURCE: LAP-FI-354—Money Matters (Role of Finance)
35. B Political. Risk is the possibility of loss (failure) or gain (success). There are different types of risk, including political, currency (foreign exchange), internal, external, technological, human, etc. Political risk, a major international risk for businesses, occurs when a country’s government changes its policies, such as by enacting trade barriers or requesting additional funds to export items in the country. This is not an example of currency, internal, or technological risk. 
SOURCE: RM:092 Describe international considerations affecting risk management
SOURCE: Beers, B. (2023, July 17). Top risks for international businesses. Retrieved October 4, 2023, from
https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/06/internationalfinancerisks.asp 36. B Familiarize yourself with the venue. Presenters should always familiarize themselves with the venue where they are speaking, including the equipment they intend to use. Jamie did not check the projector ahead of time, making his presentation a more difficult endeavor. Jamie has not yet begun presenting, so he has not ignored his audience or spoken in an unclear manner. Jamie did show up on time to the venue, but he forgot to check the equipment. 
SOURCE: CO:055 Extract relevant information from written materials
SOURCE: MindTools. (2023). 10 common presentation mistakes. Retrieved October 16, 2023, from
https://www.mindtools.com/avmnivr/10-common-presentation-mistakes 2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 9 37. D Communication. Communication throughout the life of a project is crucial to that project’s success. Specifically, consistent communication is necessary for successfully executing and controlling a project. Procrastination involves putting off until tomorrow what could be done today and is not helpful when working on a project. Delegation and negotiation are sometimes necessary, but they are not required for successfully executing and controlling a project. 
SOURCE: PJ:009 Execute and control projects
SOURCE: Indeed. (2022, December 5). The importance of communication. Retrieved October 18, 2023, from
https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/importance-of-communication-in-projectmanagement 38. A Personally identifiable information. Personally identifiable information (PII) is any data that could potentially identify a specific individual. Any information that can be used to distinguish one person from another is a potential security risk to customers. Therefore, it is important for companies to protect this information. Patented intelligence integration, partial individual inputs, and patronage-implementation idea are not acknowledged acronyms regarding customer protection. 
SOURCE: OP:518 Comply with strategies to protect digital customer data (e.g., information about customers,
customers' credit-card numbers, passwords, customer transactions) 
SOURCE: Rossi, B. (2019, December 3). 10 ways businesses can protect customer data. Retrieved November
3, 2023, from https://www.information-age.com/10-ways-businesses-can-protect-customer-data-128/ 39. D Transformational. Change management is the process of guiding an organization through a change, including those made to company cultures, procedures, technology, infrastructure, etc. Large, often dramatic changes— such as deciding to expand the business internationally or launching a new product—are often called transformational changes. Adaptive changes are typically smaller incremental changes that evolve over time. “Personnel” refers to employees, which are not necessarily related to large and dramatic changes. “Creative changes” isn’t a term recognized in change management. 
SOURCE: SM:096 Explain the change-management lifecycle
SOURCE: Miller, K. (2020, March 19). 5 critical steps in the change management process. Retrieved
September 29, 2023, from https://online.hbs.edu/blog/post/change-management-process 40. B Loss of use. Loss of use coverage helps homeowners pay for additional expenses they have incurred while their house is being repaired or restored. If Raphael’s home is damaged or destroyed, loss of use coverage will help pay the temporary costs of living while awaiting repairs. Personal property coverage pays for an individual’s personal items, such as furniture, clothing, or electronics. Personal liability coverage helps protect a homeowner if a legal suit is brought against them for bodily injury or property damage. Dwelling coverage is a type of home insurance that covers the actual costs to repair or rebuild a homeowner’s house if it is damaged or destroyed. 
SOURCE: FI:571 Determine insurance needs
SOURCE: Travelers. (2022). Home insurance coverage. Retrieved October 6, 2023, from
https://www.travelers.com/home-insurance/coverage 2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 10 41. A Prioritize daily activities. The eight steps in the time-management process are set goals; identify objectives; create monthly, weekly, and daily to-do lists; prioritize daily activities; schedule daily activities; and follow your plan. Since Jared has already completed the first five steps of the process, his next step will be to prioritize his daily activities. Once he prioritizes them, he can schedule his daily activities before following his plan and putting it into action. Although keeping a time log may help Jared to better manage his time, it is not a step in the time-management process. 
SOURCE: PD:019 Use time-management skills
SOURCE: LAP-PD-019—About Time (Time Management)
42. B Prioritize. Knowledge management is the process of creating, identifying, collecting, organizing, sharing, and using knowledge and knowledge sources for the benefit of the organization or business. The knowledge management process can be split into six stages: Prioritize, audit, capture, curate, deliver, optimize. The first stage of the knowledge management process is to prioritize the knowledge. This is done by determining what customers are actually asking about and prioritizing that information using the 80-20 rule—80% of queries will be solved using 20% of your knowledge. 
SOURCE: KM:018 Apply knowledge management processes
SOURCE: eGain. (2023). What is a knowledge management process? Retrieved October 27, 2023, from
https://www.egain.com/what-is-knowledge-management-process 43. B It ends a dispute before the end of a trial. Settling a case means ending a dispute before the end of a trial. Trials are expensive, but cases that reach settlement can avoid the expense of a trial while still offering some compensation for the wrong that was committed. Settlements do not take place after a trial. Even though they can sometimes speed up the process, lawyers and courtroom procedure are not necessary to reach a settlement. Both parties must agree to the settlement. 
SOURCE: BL:159 Describe factors affecting the settlement of legal matters
SOURCE: Findlaw. (2016, June 20). What does it mean to settle a case? Retrieved October 4, 2023, from
https://www.findlaw.com/litigation/legal-system/what-does-it-mean-to-settle-a-case.html 44. C Abstract. An abstract in a research report is a brief overview that highlights all the important aspects of the research in a concise manner. Abstracts are always brief, go straight to the point, and come before the introduction. The introduction of a research report highlights the objectives of the research, the problem the research sets to solve, and the specifics of the research problem. The findings section details the results of the research. The conclusion comes at the end of the report and is a summary of all of the information in the report and outlines the significance of the entire study. 
SOURCE: CO:186 Write research reports
SOURCE: Longe, B. (2023, July 27). Research report: Definition, types + [writing guide]. Retrieved October 10,
2023, from https://www.formpl.us/blog/research-report 2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 11 45. C It makes knowledge easier to record. Knowledge management is the process of creating, identifying, collecting, organizing, sharing, and using knowledge and knowledge sources for the benefit of the organization or business. Technology facilitates knowledge management in organizations because it makes knowledge easier to record, access, and store. While knowledge management can go a long way toward helping professionals retain knowledge, it does not necessarily ensure knowledge will be retained. 
SOURCE: KM:003 Explain the use of technology in knowledge management
SOURCE: IBM. (n.d.). What is knowledge management? Retrieved October 27, 2023, from
https://www.ibm.com/topics/knowledge-management 46. C Must be commercially valuable. Trade secrets are intellectual property rights or confidential information that can be sold or licensed. For information to qualify as a trade secret, the information must be commercially valuable and be known by only a limited group of persons, rather than a large group of people. In addition, the information must be subject to reasonable steps taken by the rightful holder of the information to keep it secret, including the use of confidentiality agreements. 
SOURCE: KM:004 Explain legal considerations for knowledge management
SOURCE: WIPO. (n.d.). Frequently asked questions: Trade secrets. Retrieved October 27, 2023, from
https://www.wipo.int/tradesecrets/en/tradesecrets_faqs.html 47. B Show why the change is necessary. According to the steps in the process of leading change, Sandra should first show why the change is necessary. If Sandra wants her staff to take the change seriously, she must show them why the change is good for both them and the company. The second step of the process is to ask others to join in leading the change, followed by communicating the change to everyone involved. After addressing the resistance to change, the final step of the process is to put the change into action. 
SOURCE: EI:005 Lead change
SOURCE: LAP-EI-005—Start the Revolution (Leading Change)
48. B Achieve customer satisfaction. The ultimate goal of supply chains is customer satisfaction—a measure of how well a business has met its customers’ expectations. From a supply chain perspective, achieving customer satisfaction means creating and maintaining a system that produces high-quality products and distributes those products effectively. While many supply chains span several countries, others are confined to local communities. Raw materials are important in supply chains but are not the ultimate goal. While supply chains should aim to be flexible, it is not their most important goal. 
SOURCE: OP:479 Describe supply chain networks
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2023, March 28). The supply chain: From raw materials to order fulfillment. Retrieved
October 27, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/s/supplychain.asp 49. C Collaboration. Collaboration is a cooperative arrangement in which two or more parties contribute and share responsibilities to achieve success. While collaboration requires cooperation, it is about much more than getting along with others or helping them with a task or a project. Collaboration occurs when all team members work together to generate ideas to accomplish a shared goal that goes beyond the ability of any one person to achieve. Concurrence refers to multiple activities taking place at the same time. Clarification is the process of making something clear and understandable. 
SOURCE: EI:130 Collaborate with others
SOURCE: LAP-EI-130—Genius Is a Team Sport (Collaborating With Others)
2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 12 50. C Train employees to recognize threats. One of the best ways a company can improve its cybersecurity is by training its employees to recognize threats. Doing so helps staff members identify cybersecurity threats and to properly report them. Encouraging the use of basic and simple passwords, avoiding implementing multifactor authentication, and allowing employees access to all company information are not ways in which a company can improve its cybersecurity. Rather, companies should encourage the use of complex passwords, implement multifactor authentication, and limit employee access to only what is necessary. 
SOURCE: OP:518 Comply with strategies to protect digital customer data (e.g., information about customers,
customers' credit-card numbers, passwords, customer transactions) 
SOURCE: Conlin, B. (2023, October 20). How to improve your small business's cybersecurity in an hour.
Retrieved October 31, 2023, from https://www.businessnewsdaily.com/15046-quick-cybersecuritytips.html 51. C Properly train employees on the data change. When there is a change in data in an organization, it is important for the organization to properly train employees on the data change. Not doing so can lead to confusion and mistakes. Other common data change best practices include conducting regular audits of datasets, maintaining history logs of data, and storing data in a central location (rather than multiple locations) to ensure everyone is accessing the same information. 
SOURCE: NF:264 Adhere to data change best practices
SOURCE: Spector, E. (2023, April 12). 6 best practices to improve change management at scale. Retrieved
October 11, 2023, from https://www.heap.io/blog/6-best-practices-to-improve-change-managementat-scale 52. A Personal involvement or emotion. Logic helps you make sense of the facts. It involves comparing and contrasting information apart from personal involvement or emotion. It entails looking at the alternatives from a neutral point of view instead of from your perspective. Using logic does not necessarily remove the need for input from others, the possibility of making a mistake, or the need for maximum input. 
SOURCE: PD:017 Make decisions
SOURCE: LAP-PD-017— Weigh Your Options (Decision-Making)
53. A Social media accounts and photos. A digital asset is anything that is created or stored digitally, provides value, establishes ownership, and is discoverable. Examples of digital assets include social media accounts, photos, email lists, websites, videos, documents, manuscripts, and intellectual property such as logos. Hardware, printers, and desktop computers are physical, tangible objects that cannot be stored digitally. Therefore, they are not examples of digital assets. 
SOURCE: OP:517 Comply with strategies for protecting business' digital assets (e.g., website, social media,
email, etc.) 
SOURCE: Frankenfield, J. (2023, September 9). Digital asset: Meaning, types, and importance. Retrieved
October 31, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/d/digital-asset-framework.asp 2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 13 54. C Content strategy. A content strategy is the practice of planning content, deliverables, or materials to be presented to the public. In the case of social media, a content strategy helps businesses maintain a professional online presence. A knowledge gap is an area or subject an individual or group don’t know anything about. A labor contract is an agreement between a union and a company outlining the wages, fringe benefits, working conditions, and rules under which employees will work. Cyberlaws are regulations that apply to online activities. 
SOURCE: CO:206 Distinguish between using social media for business and personal purposes
SOURCE: Gibbings, M. (2022, August 9). Strengthen your professional presence on social media. Retrieved
October 16, 2023, from https://hbr.org/2022/08/strengthen-your-professional-presence-on-socialmedia 55. A $25 million. Free cash flow is the money that remains after a company pays for operating expenses and capital expenditures. The formula for calculating free cash flow is: Free cash flow = Cash flow from operations – Capital expenditures. When inserting the figures from this scenario, the formula is: Free cash flow = $100 million – $75 million. The difference is $25 million, making it the company's free cash flow. 
SOURCE: FI:541 Interpret cash-flow statements
SOURCE: Murphy, C.B. (2023, October 7). What is the formula for calculating free cash flow? Retrieved
October 10, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/033015/what-formulacalculating-free-cash-flow.asp 56. C Satisfaction. Customer satisfaction is a measure of how well a business or product meets or exceeds customer expectations. If Zae is happy with his laptop, then he is demonstrating customer satisfaction. Customer loyalty is a customer's preference for a business; in other words, how often the customer purchases the business's goods or services. Customer appreciation is a term used to describe a business’s demonstration of goodwill to customers. Customer feedback is evaluative or corrective information given by the customer to the salesperson. Zae is not giving customer feedback in this instance. 
SOURCE: MK:019 Demonstrate connections between company actions and results (e.g., influencing consumer
buying behavior, gaining market share, etc.) 
SOURCE: LAP-MK-019—Just Do It...Right (Company Actions and Results)
57. D Exit. An exit interview refers to discussions with employees who are leaving that are designed to gain feedback for the business. In terms of knowledge management, exit interviews are used by companies as a way to capture and transfer knowledge. An expert interview is used in market research to obtain information on the market, consumers, products, and services. A personal interview is a data collection method in which a researcher sits down with a respondent one-on-one to ask questions and record the respondent's answers. A phone interview includes surveying individuals via phone to obtain research data. 
SOURCE: KM:005 Identify techniques that can be used to capture and transfer knowledge in an organization
SOURCE: Bamboo HR. (2023). Exit interview. Retrieved October 27, 2023, from
https://www.bamboohr.com/resources/hr-glossary/exit-interview 2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 14 58. A Change. Change management is the process of guiding an organization through a change, including those made to company cultures, procedures, technology, infrastructure, etc. Because Kelsey is working to implement a new policy—which would be a significant change for the organization—she should work through the steps of a change management plan. Channel management includes processes by which marketers ensure products are distributed to customers efficiently and effectively. Crisis management is a public relations strategy that involves the ongoing management, planning, and coordination of resources in the event undesirable circumstances occur. Customer relationship management includes the strategies, processes, technology, and people a business uses to build, maintain, and maximize the long-term value of customer relationships. 
SOURCE: SM:095 Explain the nature of change management
SOURCE: Miller, K. (2020, March 19). 5 critical steps in the change management process. Retrieved
September 29, 2023, from https://online.hbs.edu/blog/post/change-management-process 59. B Monitoring and controlling. Project monitoring and controlling is the fourth stage of the project management process. It involves ensuring the project stays on track and taking the appropriate corrective measures if it doesn’t. Therefore, identifying and resolving issues that arise during a project is most likely to occur during the monitoring and controlling stage of project management—not the initiation, planning, or closing stages. 
SOURCE: PJ:009 Execute and control projects
SOURCE: Doan, D. (2023, September 18). The 5 phases of project management. Retrieved October 18, 2023,
from https://blog.hubspot.com/marketing/project-management-phases 60. B Mediating conflict and providing feedback. Managing a project team requires a lot of work, including mediating conflict, resolving issues, managing team changes, tracking team member performance, and providing feedback. Documenting progress and identifying risks are important steps in project management, but they aren’t necessarily part of managing a project team. 
SOURCE: PJ:007 Manage project team
SOURCE: Kissflow. (2023, October 10). 10 dynamic strategies for managing a project team. Retrieved October
26, 2023, from https://kissflow.com/project/project-team-management/ 61. A Company downsizing. Downsizing, or reducing the size and payroll of a company by eliminating workers, would be most likely to inspire changes to business processes. When companies cut costs and reduce manpower, they are often forced to significantly change their processes to accommodate for the changes in budget and manpower. Meeting with a new client or firing a single employee are unlikely to inspire business process changes because they are relatively insignificant events in comparison. A routine safety inspection may bring about process changes if a safety hazard is discovered, but this occurrence is less likely to inspire change than the downsizing of an entire company. 
SOURCE: OP:476 Explain the causes of business process changes
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2022, December 26). Business process redesign (BPR). Retrieved October 27, 2023,
from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/b/business-process-redesign.asp 2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 15 62. A Accessible. One of the biggest advantages of internal data is that they are readily available for analysis. The ability to make quick decisions is enhanced by almost-instant access to information. Internal data are not necessarily more accurate or impartial than external data. The accuracy and impartiality of data depends on the validity and dependability of the sources providing the data. Internal data are usually less comprehensive than external data because external data comprise all sources of information outside a business, including data from the internet, other businesses, and academic studies. 
SOURCE: NF:014 Monitor internal records for business information
SOURCE: Lido. (2023). Managing internal and external data to optimize your business. Retrieved September
29, 2023, from https://www.lido.app/post/internal-and-external-data 63. D Continuous. Though each business is unique, there are certain staffing tasks that every organization undertakes. Unlike organizing (another managerial function), staffing is a continuous activity—it’s happening across the business, all the time. Organizing lays the foundation for staffing, but staffing is what gets employees in the door and in the right job positions. Staffing is not necessarily a technological, emotional, or risky activity. 
SOURCE: SM:065 Describe managerial considerations in staffing
SOURCE: LAP-SM-065—Dream Team Maker (Staffing)
64. B Replace the product. If consumers don’t buy a product, the producer must change it, replace it, or go out of business. Each time a consumer makes a purchase, they are casting an economic vote in the marketplace. These economic votes enable consumers to control what will be produced. Raising the product’s price will likely further discourage customers from buying the product. Hiring new employees does not address the issue that customers do not like the product. Suing customers would not increase sales, and there would likely be no grounds for a lawsuit. 
SOURCE: EC:009 Explain the concept of private enterprise
SOURCE: LAP-EC-909—People Power (The Private Enterprise System)
65. D Sales numbers. Quantitative data are numerical facts and figures such as time and money. Sales numbers are an example of monetary data that are not subjective. Feedback forms, diaries and logs, and focus groups are examples of qualitative data. 
SOURCE: OP:521 Evaluate project success
SOURCE: LAP-OP-521—Making the Grade (Evaluating Project Success)
66. B Provide consistent communication. Maintaining clear and consistent communication channels is one of the most important principles of supplier relationships. Regular communications will help all involved parties better understand each other’s operations, culture, and vision. It is important to be proactive, not reactive, when maintaining supplier relationships. It is a mistake to overpromise business opportunities or attempt practices that are infeasible. Businesses should embrace automated technologies because they help improve virtually any business processes, including vendor relationships. 
SOURCE: OP:241 Maintain vendor/supplier relationships
SOURCE: Lavelle, E. (2023, October 23). 10 ways to improve your supplier relationships. Retrieved October
23, 2023, from https://enable.com/blog/10-ways-to-improve-your-supplier-relationships 2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 16 67. D Motivating. Motivation is the process of getting employees to strive to achieve management’s objectives because they want to achieve them. In an ideal world, employees would want to reach the company’s goals just out of the goodness of their hearts—but that’s not how people are. In the workplace, motivation keeps employees working hard and putting forth as much effort as they can to achieve their own goals. This is not an example of instructing, planning, or delegating. 
SOURCE: SM:066 Discuss managerial considerations in directing
SOURCE: LAP-SM-066—Take Action (Managerial Directing)
68. A Automation. Automation is the method of using technology to complete tasks for the purpose of reducing human effort and labor. As machines and computers become more intelligent, they will continue to further the usefulness of automation in supply chains and supply chain management. Raw materials are items in their natural state or condition—raw materials have been an important element of supply chains well before the implementation of machine learning and AI. Manual labor is decreasing due to machine learning and AI, not increasing. Tariffs are not directly related to automation. 
SOURCE: OP:478 Describe the impact of technology on supply chain management
SOURCE: Stackpole, B. (2020, February 14). 5 supply chain technologies that deliver competitive advantage.
Retrieved October 23, 2023, from https://mitsloan.mit.edu/ideas-made-to-matter/5-supply-chaintechnologies-deliver-competitive-advantage 69. D It can be gained through an experience. Tacit knowledge is knowledge an individual possesses that is difficult to transfer to others either verbally or in writing. Tacit knowledge is gained through some sort of experience. Tacit knowledge is harder to grasp than explicit knowledge, which is knowledge that can be easily communicated to others or readily captured and stored in some type of document or database. 
SOURCE: KM:001 Explain the nature of knowledge management
SOURCE: LAP-KM-001—Know Go (The Nature of Knowledge Management)
70. D
Up-to-date knowledge of laws and regulations. Risk management is a business activity that involves the planning, controlling, preventing, and procedures used by management to limit business losses. To implement effective risk management, you should have up-to-date knowledge of laws and regulations, as this will help an organization avoid losses due to legal noncompliance. A long-term career plan, an advertising campaign, and membership in a professional organization will not necessarily help you implement effective risk management. 
SOURCE: RM:043 Discuss legal considerations affecting risk management
SOURCE: Gracy, M. (2023, September 2). How to implement risk management framework (quick guide).
Retrieved October 10, 2023, from https://sprinto.com/blog/risk-management-framework/ 70. D
Up-to-date knowledge of laws and regulations. Risk management is a business activity that involves the planning, controlling, preventing, and procedures used by management to limit business losses. To implement effective risk management, you should have up-to-date knowledge of laws and regulations, as this will help an organization avoid losses due to legal noncompliance. A long-term career plan, an advertising campaign, and membership in a professional organization will not necessarily help you implement effective risk management. 
SOURCE: RM:043 Discuss legal considerations affecting risk management
SOURCE: Gracy, M. (2023, September 2). How to implement risk management framework (quick guide).
Retrieved October 10, 2023, from https://sprinto.com/blog/risk-management-framework/ 

71. Which of the following best describes a plaintiff in the litigation process: 
A. The party that answers a complaint and defends themselves
B. The party that makes a formal legal complaint
C. The person who presides over the court proceeding
D. The body of people sworn to give a verdict based on evidence

71. B
The party that makes a formal legal complaint. Litigation is the formal process during which legal disputes are involved. The plaintiff in the litigation process refers to the person or party that initiates a case and makes a formal legal complaint. The defendant is the person or party that the plaintiff has a legal issue with. Defendants must answer the complaint and defend themselves. A judge is a public official appointed to preside over court proceedings. A jury is the body of people sworn to give a verdict in a legal case based on evidence presented in court. 
SOURCE: BL:160 Describe the litigation process
SOURCE: Bieber, C. (2023, April 24). What is litigation? Understanding the litigation process. Retrieved
October 4, 2023, from https://www.forbes.com/advisor/legal/litigation 2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 17 

13. One of the most common reasons why a defendant may choose to settle a legal dispute out of court is to 
A. avoid the high costs of going to trial.
B. earn the respect of a jury.
C. prove the defendant's innocence.
D. turn the ordeal into a public spectacle.

13. A
Avoid the high costs of going to trial. Litigation costs are often extremely high—and the outcome of a trial could be potentially more damaging to a defendant than settling out of court. Settling, however, generally involves some sort of admission of wrongdoing—even if the defendant believes it did nothing wrong. Therefore, proving the defendant's innocence is not generally a reason for settling a case out of court. Trials can also turn into public spectacles, drawing unwanted attention and potentially negative publicity to the defendant. Settling out of court is an effective way to avoid turning the case into this sort of public drama. Earning the respect of a jury could only happen via a trial, not by settling out of court. 
SOURCE: BL:159 Describe factors affecting the settlement of legal matters
SOURCE: The Free Dictionary. (2023). Settlement. Retrieved September 21, 2023, from http://legaldictionary.thefreedictionary.com/settlement
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 4 

14. Which of the following is the starting point for a new civil litigation case: 
A. Indictment
B. Discovery
C. Complaint
D. Preliminary hearing

14. C
Complaint. A complaint is the formal document filed by a party in court that demands relief from another party. Discovery comes after a complaint has been filed and deals with the sharing of evidence between two opposing parties in court. A preliminary hearing is generally a criminal hearing. An indictment can start a criminal court case, not a civil court case. 
SOURCE: BL:160 Describe the litigation process
SOURCE: Murray, J. (2019, October 17). The litigation process for business individuals. Retrieved September
21, 2023, from https://www.thebalancesmb.com/litigation-and-business-disputes-398330 

31. Walmart, Chevron, and Ford Motor Company sell stock in their companies. They are examples of which of the following types of business ownership: 
A. Franchisee
B. Sole proprietorship
C. Partnership
D. Corporation

31. D
Corporation. Walmart, Chevron, and Ford Motor Company are all large businesses owned by their shareholders, who own stock in the company. These businesses are operated under written permission from the states or provinces in which they operate. A sole proprietorship is a business owned and operated by one person. A partnership is owned by two or more people. A franchisee purchases the rights to operate a business using the parent company's (franchisor's) name. 
SOURCE: BL:003 Explain types of business ownership
SOURCE: LAP-BL-003—Own It Your Way (Types of Business Ownership)

58. Which of the following is an example of a customs regulation: 
A. Corporations that hire illegal immigrants must pay fines to the government.
B. A country has issued a travel advisory for certain foreign nations that encourages citizens to take extra
precautions. C. Citizens are not allowed to bring fresh fruits and vegetables back with them upon reentering the country.
D. Citizens must receive specific vaccinations before traveling to certain countries where disease is prevalent.

58. C
Citizens are not allowed to bring fresh fruits and vegetables back with them upon reentering the country. Customs regulations are regulations regarding the import and export of goods into a country. An example of a customs regulation is the prohibition on bringing fresh fruits and vegetables into the country after traveling. This is to prevent disease and pests from crossing country lines. Travel advisories, fines for hiring illegal immigrants, and vaccination recommendations are also related to travel and borders but are not customs regulations. 
SOURCE: BL:126 Describe the nature of customs regulations
SOURCE: U.S. Customs and Border Protection. (2019, February 15). Bringing food into the U.S. Retrieved
September 20, 2023, from https://www.cbp.gov/travel/international-visitors/agricultural-items BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 15 

96. Which of the following legal processes is a nonbinding way to resolve a dispute: 
A. Litigation
B. Mediation
C. Mitigation
D. Arbitration

96. B
Mediation. Mediation is the process in which a neutral third party works to help opposing parties resolve a conflict. Arbitration is similar to mediation but can involve a panel of neutral third-party members who make a binding decision to solve the dispute. Litigation occurs when a dispute is settled in court. Mitigation is an aspect of decision-making in litigation. 
SOURCE: BL:161 Discuss the arbitration/mediation process
SOURCE: Shonk, K. (2023, August 7). What is an arbitration agreement? Retrieved September 21, 2023, from
https://www.pon.harvard.edu/daily/conflict-resolution/what-is-an-arbitration-agreement/ 

16. Which form of business ownership makes up the minority of businesses in the U.S. yet makes up the majority of sales? 
A. Sole proprietorships
B. Corporations
C. Partnerships
D. LLCs

16. B
Corporations. In the U.S., corporations are in the minority as a form of business ownership, but they generate the majority of sales. There are many more sole proprietorships, partnerships, and LLCs in the U.S., but they do not generate near as many sales as corporations. 
SOURCE: BL:003 Explain types of business ownership
SOURCE: LAP-BL-003—Own It Your Way (Types of Business Ownership)
ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 5 

30. Which of the following information about new employees are businesses required to report to the federal government: 
A. References
B. Compensation
C. Benefits
D. Address

30. D
Address. Federal law requires businesses to report certain information about new employees, such as their names, addresses, and Social Security numbers. Businesses obtain this information by having new employees fill out IRS Form W-4, which is used for income tax withholding purposes. Businesses are not required to report information about a new employee's references, benefits, or compensation. 
SOURCE: BL:010 Explain the nature of businesses' reporting requirements
SOURCE: Enright, M. (2020, August 26). New employee forms after hiring an employee. Retrieved August 10,
2023, from https://www.wolterskluwer.com/en/expert-insights/new-employees-forms-after-hiring-anemployee 

58. Which of the following is an example of a legally binding contract: 
A. A verbal expression of interest in an apartment
B. Terms and conditions associated with software
C. The purchase of an airline ticket
D. Making a doctor's appointment

58. B
Terms and conditions associated with software. When you download software and agree to abide by the terms and conditions associated with the product, you are generally legally bound to do so. Verbal expression of interest in an apartment, the purchase of an airline ticket, and making a doctor's appointment are not examples of legally binding contracts. 
SOURCE: BL:002 Describe the nature of legally binding contracts
SOURCE: TermsFeed. (2012-2023). Terms and conditions: Frequently asked questions. Retrieved August 11,
2023, from https://www.termsfeed.com/blog/terms-conditions-faq/ 

67. Macon Industries writes a purchase order for bolts, washers, and nails and sends the order to the Stanton Company to process. In this situation, the purchase order is a(n) 
A. letter of intent.
B. open order.
C. accounts-receivable document.
D. sales contract.

67. D
Sales contract. A purchase order is a form that a business fills out to order goods. Because the order indicates that the business is willing to do something (pay for the items it orders) in exchange for something else (take possession of the goods), the purchase order serves as a sales contract. An open order is a type of purchase order in which buyers place the order with the supplier that can best meet the needs or criteria (e.g., price) for a particular item. Because accounts receivable is an accounting activity that involves collecting payment for the goods and services that the business offers, a purchase order is not an accounts-receivable document. A letter of intent is a letter that declares the writer's intention to do something. A purchase order is a form rather than a letter. 
SOURCE: BL:001 Describe legal issues affecting businesses
SOURCE: USLegal. (1997-2023). Sales contracts law & legal definition. Retrieved August 11, 2023, from
http://definitions.uslegal.com/s/sales-contracts/ 

45. Alejandro is a risk-taker who wants to make all the decisions and feels comfortable controlling all aspects of his business. What form of business ownership should he choose? 
A. Sole proprietorship
B. Hybrid
C. Corporation
D. Partnership

45. A
Sole proprietorship. Alejandro is a risk-taker who has a high level of independence and control, which means sole proprietorship would be a good option for business ownership. A sole proprietorship experiences higher risks because they have unlimited liability. If he did not feel comfortable making all the decisions, desired input from others, and was not a risk-taker, partnerships, hybrids, or corporations might serve him better. 
SOURCE: BL:006 Select form of business ownership
SOURCE: LAP-BL-006—Taking Care of Business (Selecting Forms of Business Ownership)
2024 HS ICDC ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 12 

82. Which of the following is an advantage of business partnerships: 
A. Increased competition
B. Unlimited liability
C. Unlimited capital
D. Reduced expenses

82. D
Reduced expenses. When individuals and/or businesses combine, expenses are often reduced. For example, expenses may be decreased for promotion, office space, supplies, and utilities. Unlimited liability is a disadvantage of business partnerships. When individuals and/or businesses combine, competition is decreased or eliminated, which is an advantage. Although partners may bring more capital to the business than sole proprietors, the amount of capital is still limited, and lenders may still be reluctant to lend large amounts of money to partnerships. 
SOURCE: BL:006 Select form of business ownership
SOURCE: LAP-BL-006—Taking Care of Business (Selecting Forms of Business Ownership)
2024 HS ICDC ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 21 

84. Which of the following is a reason for which a company can legally dismiss an employee: 
A. Age
B. Misconduct
C. Religion
D. Retaliation

84. B
Misconduct. A company can legally dismiss an employee for many reasons, including misconduct, poor performance, and insubordination. Misconduct can include physical violence or threats against other employees, discriminatory behavior in the workplace, attendance issues, and unethical behavior. It is illegal for companies to fire employees based on retaliation, or employees exercising their legal rights (e.g., reporting discrimination, joining a union, filing a worker's compensation claim). It is illegal for companies to fire employees based on their age, religion, gender, etc., as it is discriminatory. 
SOURCE: BL:007 Explain the nature of human resources regulations
SOURCE: The Hartford. (2023). Acceptable reasons for termination. Retrieved January 11, 2024, from
https://www.thehartford.com/business-insurance/strategy/employee-termination/valid-reasons 

28. What type of tort involves using false statements to damage a person's reputation and good name? 
A. Nuisance
B. Defamation
C. Misrepresentation
D. Civil law

28. B
Defamation. Defamation involves using untrue or false characterizations to harm someone's reputation and public standing. Slander and libel are the two general forms of defamation. Slander involves saying something untrue that damages a person's or business's reputation, while libel involves writing something untrue that damages a person's or business's reputation. Misrepresentation involves telling the facts in an inaccurate way. Defamation violates civil law. Nuisances generally deal with land disputes. 
SOURCE: BL:069 Identify the basic torts relating to business enterprises
SOURCE: Laws.com. (2020, September 12). A brief overview of tort law. Retrieved October 2, 2023, from
https://tort.laws.com/tort-law 

32. Which of the following is an important advantage for the corporate form of business ownership: 
A. Ability to raise large amounts of capital
B. Ease of making major policy changes
C. Ease of starting and dissolving
D. Relatively little government regulation

32. A
Ability to raise large amounts of capital. A corporation is a form of business ownership that is owned by stockholders who have purchased stock. Corporations can easily raise capital by selling additional shares of stock in the business. There is a large amount of government regulation of corporations. It is often necessary to have board approval to change policies, and there is a lot of paperwork and red tape involved in starting or ending a corporation. 
SOURCE: BL:006 Select form of business ownership
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2023, June 14). Corporation: What it is and how to form one. Retrieved October 2,
2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/c/corporation.asp 

62. Which of the following are generally protected by copyrights: 
A. New ideas
B. Movies, music, and books
C. New processes
D. Words affiliated with a product

62. B
Movies, music, and books. Copyrights protect a wide range of works such as movies, books, stage plays, physical works of art (e.g., paintings, sculptures), and sound recordings. Businesses and individuals use patents to protect new processes and inventions. A trademark protects words or symbols used by a business to identify a good or service. Copyrights protect the expression of ideas but do not typically protect the ideas themselves, no matter if the ideas are new or old. Trade secret law and confidentiality agreements help protect ideas from misuse from others. 
SOURCE: BL:051 Describe methods used to protect intellectual property
SOURCE: Entrepreneur. (2023). Intellectual property. Retrieved October 2, 2023, from
https://www.entrepreneur.com/encyclopedia/intellectual-property 

74. When the YRQ Company pays its entry-level employees the lowest amount of money per hour that the government allows, it is complying with 
A. worker-compensation rulings.
B. minimum-wage laws.
C. equal-credit policies.
D. labor-union regulations.

74. B
Minimum-wage laws. By passing laws that require businesses to pay workers a minimum amount of money per hour, the government is protecting workers' rights for fair and reasonable compensation. Worker compensation is insurance purchased by employers to provide benefits to employees who are injured on the job. A labor union is a group of workers in the same industry or profession who have united to improve the terms and conditions under which they work. Labor union laws govern the way labor unions can organize and take action. Equalcredit policies are guidelines that provide all consumers with an equal opportunity to apply for credit, which allows buyers to buy now and pay later. 
SOURCE: BL:007 Explain the nature of human resources regulations
SOURCE: Employment Law Handbook. (n.d.). Minimum wage laws. Retrieved October 2, 2023, from
https://www.employmentlawhandbook.com/employment-and-labor-laws/topics/wage-andhour/minimum-wage/ 

30. Six months ago, Xander bought 500 shares of stock at $25 per share. Today, he sold all 500 shares for $48 per share. What type of tax is Xander obligated to pay as a result of this financial transaction? 
A. Stock sales tax
B. Luxury tax
C. Capital gains tax
D. Excise tax

30. C
Capital gains tax. A capital gain is the increase in an asset's value from the time that it is purchased to the time that it is sold. The federal government charges capital gains taxes on most capital gains. A luxury tax is a tax paid on nonessential (and, in many cases, expensive) goods. An excise tax is a tax placed on a specific good. Luxury and excise taxes can be used to discourage consumption of certain products or to raise some easy money on products that the government knows people will continue to purchase, regardless of the tax. Stock sales tax is a fictitious term. 
SOURCE: BL:134 Discuss the effect of tax laws and regulations on financial transactions
SOURCE: Fernando, J. (2023, July 31). Capital gains tax: What it is, how it works, and current rates. Retrieved
August 7, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/c/capital_gains_tax.asp 

50. Which of the following is a benefit of compliance in the finance industry: 
A. It builds and maintains public trust in the financial system.
B. It eliminates all risks an organization may face.
C. It makes it easier to manipulate the market or market prices.
D. It leads to decreased regulatory scrutiny and regulation.

50. A
It builds and maintains public trust in the financial system. Financial compliance is the regulation and enforcement of laws and rules in finance, the capital markets, and the banking system. It has several benefits, including building and maintaining the public's trust in the financial system, managing risk, and reducing financial crime, among others. While financial compliance advises companies how to avoid and address risk, it does not entirely eliminate it. Financial compliance was a result of increased regulatory scrutiny and regulation because of the 2008 financial crisis; financial compliance does not lead to decreased regulatory scrutiny and regulation. The crisis led to compliance departments becoming active in risk management rather than being in simply an advisory role. Manipulating the market or market prices is considered to be an unethical financial compliance practice rather than a benefit. 
SOURCE: BL:148 Discuss the nature and scope of compliance in the finance industry
SOURCE: Hargrave, M. (2020, October 31). Compliance department: Definition, role, and duties. Retrieved
August 7, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/c/compliancedepartment.asp FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 12 

66. Charlotte, an investment advisor, does more than simply sell stocks and bonds. She also provides investing advice to her clients on an ongoing basis. She talks with clients about their short-term and long-term investing goals and helps them select the investments that are best for them. Charlotte acts as her clients' 
A. credit analyst.
B. fiduciary.
C. institutional investor.
D. accountant.

66. B
Fiduciary. A fiduciary is someone who acts on behalf of another person or organization. In most cases, fiduciaries are responsible for managing their clients' financial assets and making decisions in the best interest of their clients. Because Charlotte does more than simply sell investments to her clients, she is considered a fiduciary. An accountant gathers, records, organizes, and reports financial data. A credit analyst assesses the requests of individuals and businesses applying for loans, makes reports to the loan committee, and helps decide if the requests should be granted. Institutional investors are mutual fund managers, large investment firms, and significant holding companies who invest in the stock market. 
SOURCE: BL:133 Discuss legal considerations in the finance industry
SOURCE: Kagan, J. (2022, September 15). Fiduciary definition: Examples and why they are important.
Retrieved August 7, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/f/fiduciary.asp 

67. When Arthur travels out of the country, he picks up some souvenirs. When he tries to bring them back home with him, he discovers that he has to pay a tax on them. Arthur must pay the 
A. customs duty.
B. souvenir tax.
C. travel tax.
D. travel duty.

67. A
Customs duty. Goods that are brought across international borders are often subject to a tax called a customs duty. This is meant to control the flow of goods. It is not called a travel tax, a travel duty, or a souvenir tax. 
SOURCE: BL:126 Describe the nature of customs regulations
SOURCE: U.S. Customs and Border Protection. (2022, December 29). Customs duty information. Retrieved
August 8, 2023, from https://www.cbp.gov/travel/international-visitors/kbyg/customs-duty-info 

74. The nature of an agent's work and the level of an agent's control are factors that determine if a __________ relationship exists. 
A. controller-associate
B. tutor-student
C. principal-collaborator
D. employer-employee

74. D
Employer-employee. In legal terms, the employer-employee relationship refers to the amount of control that a principal (e.g., employer or client) has over an agent (e.g., employee or attorney). Determining if a employeremployee relationship exists is an important consideration when addressing a business's legal issues and disputes, especially in cases that involve liability questions. Factors that determine if a employer-employee relationship exists include the nature of the agent's work, the level of the agent's control (e.g., decision-making), and the agent's level of supervision. Tutor-student, principal-collaborator, and controller-associate are not terms that are widely used to describe agency relationships in law. 
SOURCE: BL:072 Explain the nature of agency relationships
SOURCE: Sam Houston State University. (n.d). Agency relationships: An overview. Retrieved August 7, 2023,
from https://www.shsu.edu/klett/agency%20et%20al.htm 

77. What is an advantage of using technology in compliance? 
A. Increased efficiency
B. Ease of transitions
C. Decreased cost
D. Risk of increased fraud

77. A
Increased efficiency. Technology can help make the compliance process more efficient because it allows information to be utilized and processed much faster. It does not necessarily decrease costs. Transitioning from an old system is not necessarily easy, but it is, in many cases, worth the difficulties. Using technology in compliance can decrease fraud with the presence of fraud detection software. 
SOURCE: BL:149 Describe the use of technology in compliance
SOURCE: Bloomberg Professional. (2016, June 28). Fintech spawns regtech to automate compliance with
regulations. Retrieved August 7, 2023, from https://www.bloomberg.com/professional/blog/fintechspawns-regtech-automate-compliance-regulations/ 

88. Drew, a high-ranking employee at a wealthy corporation, received word that a product his company produces will need a massive recall, which will likely result in the company's stock price falling. Before the news of the recall is made public online, Drew informs one of his close friends of the upcoming recall so they can sell their stock in the company. Drew's actions demonstrate 
A. internet fraud.
B. pump-and-dump schemes.
C. insider trading.
D. boiler room tactics.

88. C
Insider trading. Insider trading is the buying or selling of a public company's stock by an individual who has nonpublic, confidential information about the company or the stock. It also includes tipping others off when one has nonpublic, confidential information. Because Drew informed his friend of the recall before the news was made public, allowing them to sell their stock before the price decreases, Drew was partaking in illegal insider trading. Boiler room tactics are high-pressure sales tactics used by salespeople to persuade investors to purchase speculative or fraudulent securities. Internet fraud is the use of online services or software to commit cybercrime, defraud victims, and take advantage of victims. Pump-and-dump schemes attempt to boost the price of a stock or security through false, misleading, fake, or exaggerated statements or recommendations. 
SOURCE: BL:133 Discuss legal considerations in the finance industry
SOURCE: Ganti, A. (2023, June 4). What is insider trading and when is it legal? Retrieved August 7, 2023, from
https://www.investopedia.com/terms/i/insidertrading.asp 

6. Mya convinces a group of people to invest in her teeth-whitening kit, telling them that she is generating high returns on their investments. Mya uses the money from her new investors to pay her initial investors high returns, while pocketing some of the money for herself. This is an example of 
A. a Ponzi scheme.
B. phishing.
C. a boiler room.
D. insider trading.

6. A
A Ponzi scheme. A Ponzi scheme is an investment scam that lures in new investors by promising high rates of return with little to no risk. Ponzi schemes pay returns to investors from the promoter's own money or from the money paid by new investors, rather than from the actual profit earned by the scheme. Phishing is an online identity-theft scam that fools its victims into believing they are submitting sensitive, personal information (such as credit card numbers or bank passwords) to a legitimate website. Insider trading refers to the buying or selling of a security by someone who has access to nonpublic information about that security. A boiler room is a method in which scammers use high-pressure tactics on potential investors by relying on cold calls, fast talking, and vague responses to make their sales. 
SOURCE: BL:133 Discuss legal considerations in the finance industry
SOURCE: New York State Attorney General. (2023). Investment fraud. Retrieved December 1, 2023, from
https://ag.ny.gov/resources/individuals/investing-finance/investment-fraud 

11. Which of the following statements about capital gains tax is true: 
A. It is due only before an investment is sold.
B. Short-term gains are taxed at one's regular income tax rate.
C. It applies to more than just capital assets.
D. Long-term gains are levied on profits held for less than a year.

11. B
Short-term gains are taxed at one's regular income tax rate. Capital gains tax is tax on earnings from the appreciation of a stock investment. Capital gains tax is owed for the tax year during which the investment is sold. Short-term capital gains tax applies if the investor owns the investment for one year or less. Short-term gains are taxed at an individual's regular income tax rate, which is higher than the tax on long-term gains. Longterm gains are levied on profits held for more than a year, not less than a year. Capital gains apply only to capital assets, such as stocks, bonds, jewelry, and real estate. Capital gains taxes are due only after an investment is sold, not before. 
SOURCE: BL:134 Discuss the effect of tax laws and regulations on financial transactions
SOURCE: Fernando, J. (2023, November 25). Capital gains tax: What it is, how it works, and current rates.
Retrieved December 1, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/c/capital_gains_tax.asp 

21. A company’s compliance department is designing and implementing controls to protect the company from risks it has identified. What key function is the compliance department performing? 
A. Advisory
B. Identification
C. Resolution
D. Prevention

21. D
Prevention. The five key functions of a compliance department are identification, prevention, monitoring and detection, resolution, and advisory. The prevention function designs and implements controls to protect a company from risks. Those risks are identified in the identification function. The resolution function resolves compliance difficulties as they occur. The advisory function advises the company on rules and controls. 
SOURCE: BL:148 Discuss the nature and scope of compliance in the finance industry
SOURCE: International Compliance Association. (2023). What is compliance? Retrieved December 4, 2023,
from https://www.int-comp.org/learn-and-develop/subject-areas/career-pages-governance-risk-andcompliance 

41. Which corporations can sell unlimited shares of stock to the general public? 
A. Private corporations
B. Nonprofit corporations
C. C corporations
D. S corporations

41. C
C corporations. C corporations can sell unlimited shares of stock to the general public—meaning there may be unlimited stockholders in just one company. To qualify as an S corporation, a company must have 100 or fewer shareholders. A nonprofit corporation cannot issue shares of stock. Private corporations do not offer shares for sale to the general public. 
SOURCE: BL:003 Explain types of business ownership
SOURCE: LAP-BL-003—Own It Your Way (Types of Business Ownership)

53. A company is searching for troublesome patterns of events in their financial data, such as abnormalities and duplicate data entries. What compliance technology reasoning process is the company utilizing? 
A. Comparative
B. Temporal
C. Cross-source
D. Symbolic

53. D
Symbolic. Symbolic reasoning searches for problematic patterns of events in financial data, such as abnormalities, duplicate data entries, incomplete information, etc. Temporal reasoning deals with the timing of transactions to determine inconsistencies. Cross-source reasoning compares and analyzes several financial transactions to ensure they are consistent. Comparative reasoning simply compares two things that are similar but not alike. 
SOURCE: BL:149 Describe the use of technology in compliance
SOURCE: RiskOptics. (2018, October 16). How technology helps you better manage compliance. Retrieved
December 1, 2023, from https://reciprocity.com/how-technology-helps-you-better-managecompliance 

68. Which of the following is an example of an ethical financial compliance practice: 
A. Implementing internal control systems to prevent fraud
B. Hiding the level of risk of a stock from a client
C. Entering an arrangement to attempt to manipulate the market
D. Aggressively pressuring clients into selling a security

68. A
Implementing internal control systems to prevent fraud. Financial compliance refers to the regulation and enforcement of laws in finance and capital markets. Financial compliance ranges through the entire finance industry, from investment banking practices to retail banking practices. An example of an ethical financial compliance practice is implementing internal controls to prevent financial crimes such as fraud and money laundering. Entering an arrangement to attempt to manipulate the market, hiding the level of risk of a stock from a client, and aggressively pressuring clients into selling a security are all examples of unethical financial compliance practices. 
SOURCE: BL:148 Discuss the nature and scope of compliance in the finance industry
SOURCE: Corporate Finance Institute. (2023). What is financial compliance? Retrieved December 4, 2023,
from https://corporatefinanceinstitute.com/resources/career-map/sell-side/risk-management/financialcompliance 

91. Terry, a corporate executive for a tech organization, learns that his company is about to acquire a smaller company. Before the deal goes through and is announced publicly, Terry informs a couple of his friends of the acquisition so they can buy shares in the company before the stock price rises. This is an example of 
A. ethical trading.
B. predatory lending.
C. insider trading.
D. affinity fraud.

91. C
Insider trading. Insider trading refers to the buying or selling of a security by someone who has access to nonpublic information about that security. When said person provides "tips" to others about the security before the information is public, it is also considered an insider trading violation. This is not an example of ethical trading. Affinity fraud is an investment scam in which the scammer claims to be a member of the group they are targeting (e.g., religious groups or ethnic identity). Predatory lending refers to lenders pressuring consumers into signing loan agreements that consumers cannot afford or are not in their best interest. 
SOURCE: BL:133 Discuss legal considerations in the finance industry
SOURCE: U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. (n.d.). Insider trading. Retrieved December 1, 2023,
from https://www.investor.gov/introduction-investing/investing-basics/glossary/insider-trading 

25. Clayton recently invested $50,000 in an oil company. The company has agreed to use Clayton's investment strictly for exploration purposes. Rather than writing off $50,000 from its corporate taxes, the company passed the deduction on to Clayton. Clayton can now write off the entire amount of his investment against his taxes. Clayton invested his money in 
A. flow-through shares.
B. derivatives.
C. government bonds.
D. offshore companies.

25. A
Flow-through shares. Flow-through shares are common tax shelters used by taxpayers to reduce their tax burdens. Corporations that issue flow-through shares are typically part of the mining industry. These companies agree to use whatever funds they receive from investors for exploration purposes—in other words, to locate new sources of oil, gold, copper, etc. Rather than writing off these funds from their corporate taxes, the companies pass the tax deductions on to their investors, who can write off their entire investments against their taxes. Offshore companies, which are also commonly used as tax shelters, are businesses that are incorporated outside the country. Government bonds are interest-bearing certificates issued by the government, which promises to pay bond owners a certain sum at a specified time. Derivatives are financial instruments whose value depends upon the value of other financial instruments (e.g., currencies, securities, commodities) or a market index. 
SOURCE: BL:134 Discuss the effect of tax laws and regulations on financial transactions
SOURCE: Prospectors & Developers Association of Canada. (2023). Flow-through shares & the mineral
exploration tax credit explained. Retrieved September 28, 2023, from https://www.pdac.ca/programsand-advocacy/access-to-capital/flow-through-shares 

30. Which of the following are examples of detective internal controls: 
A. Monthly reconciliation of bank accounts and accepting inventory
B. Audits and reconciliation of petty cash accounts
C. Making purchases and approving payments
D. Authorizing invoices and verifying expenses

30. B
Audits and reconciliation of petty cash accounts. Internal controls are procedural measures an organization adopts to ensure the integrity of financial and accounting information, promote accountability, and prevent fraud. Internal controls are broadly divided into preventive and detective activities. Detective controls are intended to uncover the existence of errors, inaccuracies, or fraud that has already occurred. Examples of detective internal controls include audits, reconciliation of petty cash accounts, monthly reconciliation of bank accounts, and review and verification of refunds. Preventative controls are designed to prevent errors, inaccuracies, or fraud before it occurs. Examples of preventative controls include ordering and accepting inventory, making purchases, authorizing invoices, verifying expenses, approving payments, authorizing returns, and issuing refunds. 
SOURCE: BL:148 Discuss the nature and scope of compliance in the finance industry
SOURCE: Bradford, C. (n.d.). What are internal controls & their purpose? Retrieved September 28, 2023, from
https://smallbusiness.chron.com/internal-controls-purpose-55904.html FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 8 

49. If you invent a new type of technological device, what type of intellectual property protection should you seek to make sure that no one else starts making the same product? 
A. Patent
B. Copyright
C. Trademark
D. Trade secret

49. A
Patent. Patents protect processes, methods, and inventions. In contrast, copyrights protect expressions of ideas, such as literary, musical, and dramatic works. Trademarks protect words and symbols that represent a product. Trade secrets are not registered with any government office and can refer to any items that are unique and useful to a business, but are not protected under the other three categories, such as a secret recipe. 
SOURCE: BL:051 Describe methods used to protect intellectual property
SOURCE: Entrepreneur. (2023). Intellectual property. Retrieved September 28, 2023, from
https://www.entrepreneur.com/encyclopedia/intellectual-property 

52. Lucy authorized her accountant, attorney, and life-insurance agent to care for her assets and make decisions regarding her money and property. Her accountant, attorney, and life-insurance agent are her 
A. fiduciaries.
B. relationship experts.
C. bookkeepers.
D. economists.

52. A
Fiduciaries. Individual's financial advisors may serve as a fiduciary, and a fiduciary relationship will exist. The fiduciary is responsible for caring for another person's assets and makes the decisions regarding an individual's assets. An example of a fiduciary would be a trusted financial advisor such as an accountant, attorney, or insurance agent. An economist is a person who studies how countries and individuals make economic decisions. A bookkeeper is an individual who analyzes financial transactions, journalizes those transactions, posts the journal entries to ledgers, and balances the books. Although Lucy's accountant may also be her bookkeeper, her attorney and life-insurance agent are not likely to be bookkeepers. 
SOURCE: BL:133 Discuss legal considerations in the finance industry
SOURCE: Cummings & Lockwood LLC. (2017). Choosing fiduciaries to handle your estate. Retrieved October
2, 2023, from https://www.cl-law.com/news-events/choosing-fiduciaries-to-handle-your-estate FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 13 

65. Which of the following is a common problem that financial institutions experience when dealing with compliance: 
A. Growing importance of technology
B. Lack of coordination
C. Long-term thinking
D. Too much emphasis on risk management

65. B
Lack of coordination. One issue that financial institutions have when dealing with compliance is lack of coordination between different departments that manage risk and compliance separately. It is important to integrate compliance throughout the organization and work together to have a unified, strategic approach. Too much emphasis on risk management is not a problem that institutions experience when dealing with compliance. In fact, risk management is an important part of compliance. Long-term thinking and the growing importance of technology are not necessarily problems related to compliance. 
SOURCE: BL:148 Discuss the nature and scope of compliance in the finance industry
SOURCE: Metric Stream. (2023). Integrated risk and compliance management for banks and financial services
organizations: Benefits of a holistic approach. Retrieved September 28, 2023, from https://www.metricstream.com/whitepapers/financial-services.htm 

85. To prove that a contract was breached, you must verify that 
A. no one is responsible.
B. you lost money.
C. the breach has already occurred.
D. more than two parties were involved.

85. B
You lost money. To prove that a contract has been breached, you must demonstrate that the contract existed, that the contract was broken, that you lost money, and that the defendant was responsible. More than two parties do not have to be involved. You do not have to verify that the breach has already occurred; a breach can be anticipatory, meaning that the terms of the contract will not be fulfilled in time. Finally, you need to verify that the defendant is responsible, not that no one is responsible. 
SOURCE: BL:002 Describe the nature of legally binding contracts
SOURCE: Rocket Lawyer. (2023). Breach of contract: What happens now? Retrieved September 28, 2023,
from https://www.rocketlawyer.com/business-and-contracts/business-operations/contractmanagement/legal-guide/breach-of-contract-what-happens-now FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 21 

87. What is typically an advantage of holding investments longer than a year? 
A. Guaranteed dividends
B. Lower taxes
C. No need for a stockbroker
D. Vulnerability to market fluctuations

87. B
Lower taxes. Short-term capital gains on investments that are held for less than a year are typically taxed as ordinary income, whereas long-term capital gains on investments that are held for over a year are taxed at a lower rate. Holding investments longer than a year does not guarantee dividends, nor does it necessarily eliminate the need for stockbrokers. Short-term investments are more vulnerable to market fluctuations than long-term investments. 
SOURCE: BL:134 Discuss the effect of tax laws and regulations on financial transactions
SOURCE: Dierking, D. (2023, August 2). Benefits of holding stocks for the long-term. Retrieved September 28,
2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/articles/investing/052216/4-benefits-holding-stocks-longterm.asp 

99. Which of the following is an impact of introducing compliance technology into a business: 
A. It identifies patterns and trends in a company.
B. It increases the likelihood of a data breach.
C. It replaces living specialists from a company.
D. It reduces a company's overall efficiency.

99. A
It identifies patterns and trends in a company. Introducing compliance technology into a business has several positive impacts. This includes identifying patterns and trends in a company, which can lead to a more competent risk assessment. Compliance technology cannot and should not replace living specialists in a company. For example, a computer can analyze information and draw conclusions from it, but it is up to the specialist to determine what to do with these conclusions. Compliance technology will improve a company's overall efficiency, not reduce it. Compliance technology increases the protection of a company's private data and information and decreases the likelihood of a data breach. 
SOURCE: BL:149 Describe the use of technology in compliance
SOURCE: Craig, S. (2021, August 4). How technology can impact the future of compliance. Retrieved
September 28, 2023, from https://www.complianceandethics.org/how-technology-can-impact-thefuture-of-compliance 

14. From a legal standpoint, hospitality and tourism customers have the right to expect businesses in this industry to take 
A. reasonable care.
B. no risks.
C. total responsibility for accidents.
D. insurance out of each customer.

14. A
Reasonable care. When hospitality and tourism businesses act in a way that a reasonable hospitality and tourism business would have acted, the business exhibits reasonable care. If hospitality and tourism businesses can prove that they acted with reasonable care, they are not fined by the courts. Otherwise, the courts can find them guilty of negligence, and they would be charged a fine. It's not possible for hospitality and tourism businesses to avoid all risks. There is always the chance that something bad can happen. Hospitality and tourism businesses are not insurers of their customers nor do they take out insurance on each customer. Instead, they take out liability insurance that transfers risk to an insurance company. Hospitality and tourism businesses act so that they limit their responsibility for accidents. 
SOURCE: BL:135 Describe the rights of customers in the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: HG.org. (1995-2023). Hospitality law. Retrieved August 4, 2023, from https://www.hg.org/hospitalitylaw.html

65. Which of the following industries would most likely be regulated by environmental laws: 
A. Mining
B. Merchandising
C. Education
D. Finance

65. A
Mining. Mining, exploration, and extractive industries are heavily regulated by environmental protection agencies to reduce potential air, soil, and water contamination. The education, finance, and merchandising industries are not as likely to be regulated by environmental laws since these industries pose little threat to the environment compared to other industries such as mining. 
SOURCE: BL:073 Discuss the nature of environmental law
SOURCE: Cornell Law School. (2022, December). Environmental law. Retrieved August 2, 2023, from
https://www.law.cornell.edu/wex/environmental_law 

69. Which level of law deals with treaties and issues such as migration and war? 
A. Federal
B. Local
C. International
D. State

69. C
International. International law includes treaties and laws that are created and enforced by organizations such as the United Nations (UN) and the International Criminal Court (ICC). International law deals with agreements between nations and globally accepted standards of behavior in areas such as human rights, refugees, migration, and war. Federal, state, and local are all levels of law, but they are not related to treaties, migration, and war. 
SOURCE: BL:163 Comply with the spirit and intent of laws and regulations
SOURCE: LAP-BL-163—Laying Down the Law (Complying With the Spirit and Intent of Laws and Regulations)

4. Which of the following is a right every hotel guest has during their stay: 
A. Swimming pool
B. Free breakfast
C. Complementary snacks
D. Clean and sanitary conditions

4. D
Clean and sanitary conditions. Every hotel guest has the right to have clean and sanitary conditions in their rooms and common areas. This includes having sanitized bathrooms, tidy rooms, and clean towels, wash cloths, and sheets. Although many hotels offer a free breakfast, complementary snacks, and a swimming pool, hotels are not obligated to provide these amenities to their guests. 
SOURCE: BL:135 Describe the rights of customers in the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: Thomas, S. (2023, July 3). 5 rights every hotel guest should know. Retrieved November 8, 2023,
from https://hotelchantelle.com/what-are-the-rights-of-hotel-guests 

6. In an international transaction, which of the following individuals or companies organizes the shipping of goods and acts as an intermediary between a business and a transportation company: 
A. Import officer
B. Freight forwarder
C. Export official
D. Customs broker

6. B
Freight forwarder. A freight forwarder organizes the shipping of goods in an international transaction; they act as an intermediary between a business and a transportation company. Customs brokers, on the other hand, focus solely on imported goods and act as an intermediary between a business and the customs department. Freight forwarders work with both importers and exporters. Neither an import officer nor an export official satisfies this description. 
SOURCE: BL:145 Explain the nature of import/export law
SOURCE: Garland, J. (2020, December 16). Freight forwarder vs. Customs broker: What’s the difference?
Retrieved November 28, 2023, from https://www.asianausa.com/freight-forwarder-customs-brokerdifference/ 6.95%. An effective rate is the average percentage a merchant pays to process a credit card transaction. The
formula to calculate effective rate is: (Total amount deducted for processing / total monthly sales) x 100. When inserting the information from this scenario, the formula is: (8,219.90 / 118,229.07) x 100 = 6.95%. 
SOURCE: FI:790 Calculate credit-card processing costs
SOURCE: Rej, M. (2023, April 10). How do you calculate processing rates? Retrieved November 16, 2023,
from https://merchantcostconsulting.com/lower-credit-card-processing-fees/how-do-you-calculateprocessing-rates 2024 HS ICDC HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 23 96. B Variability. Hospitality and tourism products are highly variable or inconsistent. Consistency differs based on the service provider’s skillset. Guests often have different expectations, which contributes to variability in hospitality and tourism. Perishability means hospitality products can’t be stored for later use. Inseparability refers to the fact that both hospitality customers and employees are intertwined and become part of the service. Intangibility means hospitality and tourism products can’t always be felt, seen, heard, or tasted before or after purchase. 
SOURCE: PM:081 Explain the concept of product in the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: Geographic Book. (2023, September 3). Characteristics of tourism product. Retrieved November 21,
2023, from https://geographicbook.com/characteristics-of-tourism-product/ 97. B Influencer marketing. Influencer marketing is a marketing strategy that involves paying a third party to promote a business’s products or services. The tourism industry is increasingly leveraging influencers—prominent people on social media—to appeal to younger customers, who are statistically more likely to be active on social media. Ambush marketing is a promotional technique whereby a non-sponsoring business tries to associate with an event to gain recognition as a sponsor. Assembly lines are a production method in which the product moves past workers who each do one assigned production task and is rarely used in the tourism industry. An open-door policy is a business practice whereby management encourages communication between employees and their superiors. 
SOURCE: NF:048 Describe current issues and trends in the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: Smart Meetings. (2023, July 21). Top 10 trends impacting the hospitality industry. Retrieved
November 20, 2023, from https://www.smartmeetings.com/tips-tools/74256/top-10-trends-impactinghospitality-industry 98. A Demonstrate corporate responsibility. All companies have an impact on the communities around them, and they should ensure that impact is positive rather than negative. One way businesses can exhibit corporate responsibility is by showing concern for the community, like by sponsoring youth programs, organizing food drives, hosting charity benefits, or raising money for disaster relief. Providing proper training for employees, utilizing touchpoints to reinforce company image, and providing excellent customer service are positive company actions, but they are not being demonstrated in the example. 
SOURCE: MK:019 Demonstrate connections between company actions and results (e.g., influencing consumer
buying behavior, gaining market share, etc.) 
SOURCE: LAP-MK-019—Just Do It…Right (Company Actions and Results)
99. A Winter sports areas. Because Isaac and Penelope want to spend their next vacation skiing and snowboarding, they should investigate winter sports areas. People travel to destinations with winter conditions (real or artificial) to participate in winter sports activities, such as skiing, snowboarding, ice skating, and tobogganing. Isaac and Penelope should not investigate beach areas (islands, resorts, etc.), towns and cities, or natural areas (mountains, forests, etc.) to ski or snowboard. 
SOURCE: SE:502 Discuss key travel destinations in major geographical regions
SOURCE: Stainton, H. (2023, January 9). The 9 types of tourist destinations. Retrieved November 28, 2023,
from https://tourismteacher.com/types-of-tourist-destinations 2024 HS ICDC HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 24 100. D Value to customers. Product marketing refers to the entire process of delivering a product to a customer and receiving feedback. Service marketing involves a person or business promoting services it offers to its customers. Where product marketing sells value to customers in the form of products, service marketing sells a relationship to customers in the form of services. Product marketing sells tangible products, whereas the services in service marketing are intangible. 
SOURCE: MK:008 Differentiate between service marketing and product marketing
SOURCE: Surbhi, S. (2018, January 20). Difference between product marketing and service marketing.
Retrieved November 21, 2023, from https://keydifferences.com/difference-between-product-andservice-marketing.html 

19. What do business owners consider when they select a business ownership structure? 
A. Product versatility, advertising strategies, and personal circumstances
B. Personal circumstances, type of business, and product mix
C. Personal circumstances, financial needs, and type of business
D. Product versatility, financial needs, and advertising strategies

19. C
Personal circumstances, financial needs, and type of business. Because each business owner's situation is unique, the owner must consider the type of business being operated, the amount of capital needed to start the business, and the owner's personal circumstances. For example, an independently wealthy, single person who starts a consulting business has different needs than a chef who has little capital and wants to open a fullservice restaurant. Product versatility, advertising strategies, and product mix are not generally considered when determining the appropriate business ownership structure. 
SOURCE: BL:003 Explain types of business ownership
SOURCE: LAP-BL-003—Own It Your Way (Types of Business Ownership)
HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 5 

31. What type of hotel security standard involves employing armed security guards in high-crime areas? 
A. Procedure-related
B. Personnel-related
C. Physical-related
D. Property-related

31. B
Personnel-related. These standards involve hiring security personnel and/or training hotel staff members to report and deal with criminal activity. Physical-related and property-related security standards involve locking, lighting, and monitoring systems. Procedure-related standards involve monitoring criminal activity and establishing a system for making guests aware of dangerous areas around the hotel. 
SOURCE: BL:065 Explain the nature of regulations affecting the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: OPS Security Group. (n.d.) 6 benefits of hiring armed security guards for your business. Retrieved
September 26, 2023, from https://opssecuritygroup.com/6-benefits-of-hiring-armed-security-guardsfor-your-business/ 

97. The primary purpose of environmental law is to 
A. encourage business development.
B. safeguard business structures.
C. maintain competition in the marketplace.
D. protect natural resources.

97. D
Protect natural resources. The primary purpose of environmental regulations is to protect natural resources, including the air, soil, and water. Environmental laws require businesses to control the amount and type of pollution they release into the environment and to use appropriate measures for the disposal of hazardous waste. By following environmental regulations, businesses are complying with the government's efforts to protect natural resources by keeping air, soil, and water safe for consumption. Antitrust laws prevent monopolies, which are conditions that reduce competition in the marketplace. Encouraging business development and safeguarding business structures are not the primary purpose of environmental laws. 
SOURCE: BL:073 Discuss the nature of environmental law
SOURCE: Laws.com. (2019, December 23). Know the purpose of environmental law. Retrieved September 26,
2023, from https://environmental.laws.com/environmental-law/purpose-of-environmental-law 

38. Brea, Robert, and Lincoln are college friends who want to start a business. Brea has creative ability, Robert's expertise is selling, and Lincoln's expertise is management. However, each has limited capital. Their ideal type of business ownership is a 
A. merger.
B. partnership.
C. franchise.
D. corporation.

38. B
Partnership. A partnership is a form of business ownership in which the business is owned by two or more persons. Often, the purpose of forming a partnership is to combine the capital, the experience, or the abilities of the partners. A corporation is a form of business ownership owned by stockholders who have purchased stock. A franchise is an agreement between a parent company and a franchisee to distribute goods and services. A merger is when two individual businesses combine to form one organization. 
SOURCE: BL:003 Explain types of business ownership
SOURCE: LAP-BL-003—Own It Your Way (Types of Business Ownership)

66. Which of the following is an example of consideration in a contract: 
A. Selling an item for $500
B. Promising to make a gift
C. Putting the price in writing
D. Giving away an item worth $500

66. A
Selling an item for $500. In a contract, consideration is what one party gives or receives in exchange for something else. If a person contracts with another person to sell an item for a certain amount, the consideration is giving up the item in exchange for $500. In this situation, the buyer's consideration is the $500 paid for the item. Consideration is not putting the price in writing, promising to make a gift, or giving away an item worth $500. 
SOURCE: BL:002 Describe the nature of legally binding contracts
SOURCE: Cornell Law School. (2022, July). Consideration. Retrieved August 2, 2023, from
https://www.law.cornell.edu/wex/consideration MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 16 

22. When shipping goods internationally, businesses can avoid penalties and fines by being aware of 
A. extreme weather.
B. accounting standards.
C. export regulations.
D. the global stock market.

22. C
Export regulations. When shipping products overseas, all businesses are subject to various export regulations and can face consequences for violating these rules. By educating their employees and organizational partners about international laws and export controls, businesses can reduce the risk of penalties and fines. While businesses should be aware of extreme weather, this does not help them avoid penalties and fines. Accounting standards and the global stock market are not directly tied to international shipping—therefore, knowledge of them would not reduce the risk of penalties or fines. 
SOURCE: BL:145 Explain the nature of import/export law
SOURCE: Shipping Solutions. (2019). Export procedures and documentation: An in-depth guide. Retrieved
September 22, 2023, from https://www.shippingsolutions.com/export-documentation-procedure 2024 HS ICDC MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 6 

45. Which of the following are examples of things that can be protected by a copyright: 
A. Literary or musical works
B. Name or phrase
C. Symbol or design
D. Invention or process

45. A
Literary or musical works. A copyright is a legal protection of books and other artistic works granted by government that gives their creators sole rights to them for a certain period of time. Literary, musical, dramatic, and architectural works, along with sound recordings and computer programs, are some examples of things that can be protected by a copyright. Inventions or processes are examples of things that can be protected by a patent--a legal protection of an invention or a process granted by government to its owners for a certain number of years. Symbols, designs, names, or phrases are examples of things that can be protected by a trademark--a word, name, symbol, or device used by a manufacturer or merchant to identify and distinguish its goods from those manufactured and sold by others. 
SOURCE: BL:051 Describe methods used to protect intellectual property
SOURCE: Entrepreneur. (2023). Intellectual property. Retrieved September 18, 2023,
from https://www.entrepreneur.com/encyclopedia/intellectual-property 

51. If several countries implement tariffs on imports, global trade often decreases. To reduce the negative effects of this form of trade protectionism, countries often negotiate 
A. domestic subsidies.
B. trade agreements.
C. export limits.
D. import restrictions.

51. B
Trade agreements. Global trade is an intricate balancing act. When one or more key players in the global economy begins reducing its participation in trade, the entire economy can suffer. To reduce the negative effects of import tariffs and other trade restrictions, countries often negotiate trade agreements with one another. Trade agreements attempt to strike deals among several countries to encourage cross-country trade. Domestic subsidies are often used as a form of trade protectionism, not as a method for encouraging global trade. Export limits and import restrictions would also fall into the category of trade protectionism. 
SOURCE: BL:145 Explain the nature of import/export law
SOURCE: Amadeo, K. (2021, October 25). What are exports? Retrieved September 18, 2023, from
https://www.thebalancemoney.com/exports-definition-examples-effect-on-economy-3305838 

