Entrepreneurship 2024 Exams

22. Intermediaries buy large quantities of goods from producers and sell smaller quantities to other intermediaries or to consumers. The result is that intermediaries __________ their per-unit cost for goods. 
A. reduce
B. increase
C. stabilize
D. control

22. A
Reduce. When intermediaries buy large quantities of goods from producers, large-scale production enables the producers to reduce their per-unit cost of the items and pass some of the savings along. Intermediaries do not have the power to stabilize or control producer prices. 
SOURCE: CM:003 Explain the nature of channels of distribution
SOURCE: LAP-CM-003—Channel It (Channels of Distribution)

34. Which of the following is a product consideration when selecting distribution channel members: 
A. Perishability
B. Promotion
C. Intensity
D. Segmentation

34. A
Perishability. A product's characteristics often influence how it moves through the distribution channel. Because a highly perishable product (e.g., fruit, milk) has a short life cycle, it should quickly move through as few channels as possible so it remains fresh for purchase and consumption. Promotion and segmentation are market factors. Intensity is a distribution strategy. 
SOURCE: CM:010 Select channels of distribution
SOURCE: Waksman, K. (2020, January 2). How to choose the best distribution channel for your business.
Retrieved August 11, 2023, from https://www.thebalance.com/choose-best-distribution-channel-foryour-business-3502272 ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 9 

98. Which of the following products would likely use an exclusive distribution pattern: 
A. A home-decorating magazine
B. A gallon of milk
C. A silk necktie
D. A large piece of farm machinery

98. D
A large piece of farm machinery. Exclusive distribution means selling a product through just one middleman in a geographic area. Marketers use this method when they need to maintain tight control over a product. This is why exclusive distribution is often used for specialty products that are technical in nature or require specialized services such as installation or repair. Examples of these products are airplanes and large machinery. Milk and magazines are examples of convenience products, which usually use intensive distribution patterns. A silk necktie is an example of a consumer shopping good, which usually uses a selective distribution pattern. 
SOURCE: CM:001 Explain the nature and scope of channel management
SOURCE: LAP-CM-001—Chart Your Channels (Channel Management)

74. Convenience items like candy bars are most likely distributed via __________ distribution. 
A. intensive
B. operative
C. selective
D. exclusive

74. A
Intensive. Intensive distribution means selling a product through every available wholesaler and retailer in a geographic area where consumers might look for it. Marketers use this method when they are attempting to reach the greatest number of consumers possible. Convenience products, like gum and candy bars, are often distributed this way. As a consumer, you want to be able to buy this product easily—you don’t want to have to shop around for it. Therefore, marketers will try to make it available wherever you might feel like buying it. Selective distribution means selling a product through a limited number of wholesalers and retailers in a geographic area. Exclusive distribution means selling a product through just one middleman in a geographic area. Operative distribution is a fictitious term. 
SOURCE: CM:001 Explain the nature and scope of channel management
SOURCE: LAP-CM-001—Chart Your Channels (Channel Management)

89. Arna regularly visits her dentist for a routine cleaning. In this scenario, Arna is the dentist’s 
A. industrial user.
B. distribution channel.
C. producer.
D. ultimate consumer.

89. D
Ultimate consumer. A channel of distribution begins with a producer and ends with an ultimate consumer or industrial user. An ultimate consumer is anyone who personally uses a good or service to satisfy their own needs or wants. Because Arna gets her teeth cleaned by her dentist, she is one of the dentist’s ultimate consumers. An industrial user is a business that buys materials, services, or goods that will be used to make other goods or used in the operation of the company. A producer makes or provides goods and services. Channels of distribution are the paths, or routes, that goods and services take from the producer to the ultimate consumer or industrial user. 
SOURCE: CM:003 Explain the nature of channels of distribution
SOURCE: LAP-CM-003—Channel It (Channels of Distribution)

91. What type of vertical marketing system places all elements of a distribution channel under the ownership of a single business? 
A. Exclusive
B. Administered
C. Corporate
D. Contractual

91. C
Corporate. A vertical marketing system is where pieces in the distribution channel—producers, wholesalers, and retailers—work together as a unit to deliver products to final consumers. The three types of vertical marketing systems are corporate, contractual, and administered. A corporate vertical marketing system streamlines the process by bringing all of the elements of the distribution channel under the ownership of a single business. In a contractual vertical marketing system, the pieces of the distribution channel continue to function as individual entities and enter into contractual relationships with other elements in the distribution channels. Administered vertical marketing systems do not employ formal contractual obligation nor corporate ownership of the distribution channel. Rather, one member of the distribution channel has enough power to control the activities of other members of the distribution channel. Exclusive vertical marketing system is a fictitious term. 
SOURCE: CM:009 Explain the nature of channel strategies
SOURCE: Dontigney, E. (2019, January 25). Three types of vertical marketing systems. Retrieved January 5,
2024, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/three-types-vertical-marketing-systems-64258.html 

12. Which of the following does a business use to evaluate its channel members' performance levels: 
A. Incentives
B. Standards
C. Collateral
D. Predictions

12. B
Standards. Standards are specifications or statements that are used as a basis for comparing or judging goods and services. Businesses establish standards as a way to measure and evaluate their channel members' performance levels. If a channel member is performing below the standard a business has set, the business may work with the channel member to improve its performance or decide to terminate the relationship. Collateral is anything of value belonging to the borrower that is pledged to a lender to guarantee that a loan will be repaid. Predictions are estimations or forecasts. Incentives are things that will fulfill certain desires. A business does not use collateral, predictions, or incentives to evaluate how its channel members are currently performing. 
SOURCE: CM:011 Evaluate channel members
SOURCE: Lucas, K. (n.d.). Performance evaluation standards. Retrieved October 3, 2023, from
https://smallbusiness.chron.com/performance-evaluation-standards-80718.html 

21. On her way home from work, Cara stops at a produce stand and buys a bag of fresh tomatoes from a local farmer. In this situation, Cara is the __________ and the farmer is the __________. 
A. intermediary; ultimate consumer
B. ultimate consumer; producer
C. producer; intermediary
D. ultimate consumer; retailer

21. B
Ultimate consumer; producer. An ultimate consumer is anyone who personally uses a good or service to satisfy their own needs or wants. In this example, Cara is the ultimate consumer; she is the final stop for the farmer's tomatoes. The farmer is the producer, because they grew the tomatoes that Cara purchased. In this example, there is no intermediary or retailer because Cara purchased the tomatoes directly from the producer. 
SOURCE: CM:003 Explain the nature of channels of distribution
SOURCE: LAP-CM-003—Channel It (Channels of Distribution)

53. The costs of promoting products are often 
A. very inexpensive, especially for new products.
B. paid for entirely by one channel member.
C. shared by channel members.
D. avoidable in certain channels.

53. C
Shared by channel members. The costs of promoting products are often shared by channel members instead of paid for entirely by one channel member. All products need to be promoted. Promotion costs are unavoidable and are often expensive, especially for new products. 
SOURCE: CM:001 Explain the nature and scope of channel management
SOURCE: LAP-CM-001—Chart Your Channels (Channel Management)

Marketing 2024 Exams

10. To assist and support another channel member's sales promotion in a particular area, a producer might work with the channel member to 
A. research and develop innovative products.
B. develop a reliable accounting system.
C. identify trends and market shifts.
D. coordinate a regional advertising campaign.

10. D
Coordinate a regional advertising campaign. Channel members are all of the businesses and individuals that assist in moving goods and services from the producer to the consumer. In many situations, producers will assist other channel members (e.g., dealers, distributors, retailers) in sales promotions. One way to assist channel members planning a sales promotion in a certain area is by providing resources (e.g., money, product samples) to develop an advertising campaign. The goal of the advertising campaign is to communicate information about the sales promotion to consumers in order to stimulate interest and sales. The producer may provide assistance by developing new products and identifying market trends, but these activities do not relate to a specific sales promotion. An accounting system refers to the methods and procedures a business uses in handling its financial information. 
SOURCE: CM:007 Coordinate channel management with other marketing activities
SOURCE: Featured. (2023, January 5). Why is channel management important for successful marketing?
Retrieved August 2, 2023, from https://blog.featured.com/why-is-channel-management-important-forsuccessful-marketing/ 

15. A large car manufacturer purchases materials that it will use to create parts for vehicles. The car manufacturer is a(n) 
A. retailer.
B. agent.
C. wholesaler.
D. industrial user.

15. D
Industrial user. An industrial user is a business that buys materials, services, or goods that will be used to make other goods or which will be used in the operation of the company. A retailer is a business that buys goods and sells them to the final consumer. Agents are intermediaries who assist in the sale of goods but do not take title to them. Wholesalers are intermediaries who buy goods from producers or agents and resell them to other businesses. 
SOURCE: CM:003 Explain the nature of channels of distribution
SOURCE: LAP-CM-003—Channel It (Channels of Distribution)

28. Channel members of a supply chain should be familiar with antitrust laws so they do not engage in activities that 
A. prohibit authority.
B. limit monopolies.
C. hinder competition.
D. restrict efficiency.

28. C
Hinder competition. Antitrust laws are regulations that prevent a person or company from taking any actions to restrain free trade and competition in the marketplace. Businesses should understand the types of business activities that violate antitrust laws, so they do not engage in them. If a business requires tying agreements or attempts to create a monopoly, it may be violating antitrust laws. The government fines a business when it violates antitrust laws. Actions that restrict efficiency or prohibit authority do not violate antitrust laws. 
SOURCE: CM:005 Explain legal considerations in channel management
SOURCE: Twin, A. (2023, January 21). Antitrust laws: What they are, how they work, major examples.
Retrieved August 2, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/a/antitrust.asp 

71. There is a dispute between two retailers selling office supplies to the same target market. This is an example of 
A. vertical conflict.
B. horizontal conflict.
C. conflict of interest.
D. conflict of needs.

71. B
Horizontal conflict. Horizontal conflict occurs between channel members at the same level, such as when two middlemen on the same level compete to sell the same manufacturer's product to the same target market. Vertical conflict occurs between channel members at different levels within the same channel. Usually, vertical conflict occurs between producers and wholesalers or producers and retailers. Conflict of interest is a situation in which it is impossible to be truly impartial. Conflict of needs is a situation that occurs when a customer needs two or more items at the same time but can afford only one. 
SOURCE: CM:001 Explain the nature and scope of channel management
SOURCE: LAP-CM-001—Chart Your Channels (Channel Management)

89. A manufacturer who wants a retailer to carry a new product might pay the retailer a slotting allowance to cover the cost of 
A. stocking the product.
B. sales incentives.
C. licensing fees.
D. mail-in rebates.

89. A
Stocking the product. A slotting allowance is a cash premium that manufacturers pay to retailers to cover the costs involved in carrying a new product. The money is intended to pay for such expenses as the cost involved in bringing the product into the store, including warehousing and stocking the product. A slotting allowance also pays for shelf space, store advertising, and penalties if the product doesn't sell. Manufacturers often pay licensing fees to sports teams or famous people to use their names or logos on products. Sales incentives are bonuses or awards given to employees who meet or exceed their sales quotas. Mail-in rebates are a sales promotion activity that involves the manufacturer returning part of the price a customer pays for a good or service. 
SOURCE: CM:006 Describe ethical considerations in channel management
SOURCE: Gilbert, D. (2018, December 6). Slotting fees: What suppliers need to know. Retrieved August 2,
2023, from https://www.dotactiv.com/blog/slotting-fees 

13. Which of the following is a way in which channel management leads to successful marketing: 
A. It limits the ability to adjust marketing campaigns.
B. It eliminates the production of poor-quality products.
C. It helps businesses reach their target audience.
D. It prevents marketers from controlling their messages.

13. C
It helps businesses reach their target audience. Channel management refers to the processes by which marketers ensure products are distributed to customers efficiently and effectively. Channel management is important to successful marketing in many ways, including that it helps businesses reach and communicate with their target audience. It also allows for marketers to monitor and analyze results from their campaigns to determine which channels are most effective and make adjustments as needed. Channel management helps marketers control their messages. Effective channel management can help with the creation of quality products, but it won't completely eliminate the production of poor-quality products. 
SOURCE: CM:007 Coordinate channel management with other marketing activities
SOURCE: Featured. (2023, January 5). Why is channel management important for successful marketing?
Retrieved September 12, 2023, from https://blog.featured.com/why-is-channel-managementimportant-for-successful-marketing 

17. A large retailer and a small retailer in the same territory are in a dispute over the price of a product they both sell. This is an example of what type of conflict? 
A. Emotional
B. Vertical
C. Horizontal
D. Internal

17. C
Horizontal. Horizontal conflict is a type of channel conflict that occurs between channel members at the same level (e.g., two retailers). Because two retailers are in conflict, this scenario is an example of horizontal conflict. Vertical conflict is a type of channel conflict that occurs between channel members at different levels within the same channel. Emotional conflict is a disagreement that is based on differences regarding personal beliefs, values, or experiences. Internal conflict is conflicting thoughts or ideas within yourself. This is not an example of vertical, emotional, or internal conflict. 
SOURCE: CM:008 Explain the nature of channel-member relationships
SOURCE: Indeed. (2022, June 24). What is horizontal conflict? (With tips for resolving conflict). Retrieved
September 12, 2023, from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/horizontalconflict 

33. While shopping for a new smartphone, Rashid is told that he cannot buy a specific brand of smartphone unless he also purchases a smartwatch from that same brand. This is an example of 
A. an exclusive territory.
B. a monopoly.
C. exclusive dealing.
D. a tying agreement.

33. D
A tying agreement. A tying agreement is an illegal agreement requiring a customer to buy other products to obtain desired goods and services. Because Rashid is told that he cannot buy a specific brand of smartphone unless he also purchases a smartwatch from that same brand, this is an example of a tying agreement. Exclusive dealing is a contractual agreement between a producer and a distributor where the distributor agrees to only sell the products of that specific producer. A monopoly is a type of market structure in which a market is controlled by one supplier, and there are no substitute goods or services readily available. An exclusive territory is a designated area or region in which a distributor is required to only sell products from a specific producer. This is not an example of exclusive dealing, a monopoly, or an exclusive territory. 
SOURCE: CM:005 Explain legal considerations in channel management
SOURCE: Gordon, J. (2022, April 15). Tying arrangement - explained. Retrieved September 6, 2023, from
https://thebusinessprofessor.com/en_US/business-transactions/tying-arrangement-definition 

43. Andy's Goods is a business that buys consumer goods and sells them to ultimate consumers at its storefront. In this scenario, Andy's Goods is a 
A. wholesaler.
B. industrial user.
C. retailer.
D. producer.

43. C
Retailer. A retailer is a business that buys consumer goods or services and sells them to the ultimate consumer. Because Andy's Goods buys consumer goods and sells them to ultimate consumers at its storefront, it is a retailer. Wholesalers are intermediaries who help move goods between producers and retailers by buying goods from producers and selling them to retailers. Producers are the people who make or provide goods and services. An industrial user is a business that buys materials, services, or goods that will be used to make other goods or used in the operation of the company. Andy's Goods is not a wholesaler, producer, or industrial user in this scenario. 
SOURCE: CM:001 Explain the nature and scope of channel management
SOURCE: LAP-CM-001—Chart Your Channels (Channel Management)

58. Which of the following is a way in which technology benefits channel management: 
A. Longer delivery times
B. Less transparency
C. Decreased efficiency
D. Better customer service

58. D
Better customer service. Channel management refers to the processes by which marketers ensure products are distributed to customers efficiently and effectively. Order tracking technology has helped individual companies provide better customer service by knowing exactly when materials and orders will arrive. Technology has helped businesses increase both efficiency and transparency, not decrease them. Packing and shipping activities can be tied to automatic order systems to further improve efficiency and decrease delivery lead times, which help customers receive their orders faster. 
SOURCE: CM:004 Describe the use of technology in the channel management function
SOURCE: Ingram, D. (n.d.). Channel management techniques. Retrieved September 6, 2023, from
https://smallbusiness.chron.com/channel-management-techniques-3072.html 

68. A bank partners with Amazon.com to create an Amazon Rewards credit card. This is an example of what type of marketing? 
A. Affinity
B. Test
C. Ambush
D. Email

68. A
Affinity. Affinity marketing is a type of marketing in which similar organizations partner to promote and sell products that appeal to specific audiences. Amazon.com partnering with a bank to create an Amazon Rewards credit card is an example of affinity marketing. Ambush marketing is a promotional technique whereby a nonsponsoring business tries to associate with an event to gain recognition as a sponsor. Email marketing is the electronic transmission of promotional messages across computer networks. Test marketing is an experiment in which marketers introduce a new product to a limited market to determine what its acceptance will be. This is not an example of ambush, email, or test marketing. 
SOURCE: CM:021 Explain the nature of affinity partner relationships
SOURCE: Indeed. (2023, February 3). What is affinity marketing? (With benefits and tips). Retrieved
September 12, 2023, from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/affinitymarketing 2024 HS ICDC MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 16 

89. Toward the end of the fiscal year, a company's earnings are not on track to meet expectations. Because of this, the company ships an excessive amount of inventory to wholesalers and retailers and then books those products as sales. This is an example of 
A. slotting allowances.
B. channel stuffing.
C. price discrimination.
D. coercion.

89. B
Channel stuffing. Channel stuffing is a deceptive business practice that involves forcing more products through a distribution channel than can realistically be sold to final consumers. It is used to inflate a company’s sales and financial earnings. Because the company shipped an excessive amount of inventory to wholesalers and retailers and then booked those products as sales, this is an example of channel stuffing. Price discrimination is an illegal activity in which a business charges different customers different prices for the same product. Coercion is the practice of using force or threats to persuade someone to do something they would otherwise be unwilling to do. Slotting allowances are payments from a producer to a retailer to ensure their products appear on the store’s shelves. This is not an example of price discrimination, coercion, or slotting allowances. 
SOURCE: CM:006 Describe ethical considerations in channel management
SOURCE: LAP-CM-006—The Right Path (Ethics in Channel Management)

7. Some large retailers have successfully integrated information sharing between channel members by incorporating __________ between suppliers, warehouse, and store checkout. 
A. bar codes and PLUs
B. outsourcing and EDI
C. PLUs and invoices
D. bar codes and EDI

7. D
Bar codes and EDI. Bar codes are a way of marking products that allows for electronic data interchange (EDI). This is an example of integrated information sharing that has advanced most areas of physical distribution. Merchandise information stored on the magnetic bar code is used for pricing, inventory control, reordering, market research, etc. PLUs or price look-ups are codes assigned to merchandise that typically changes price frequently. The number is entered into the checkout system and the assigned price ID rung. Outsourcing requires an outside business to complete a specified task. 
SOURCE: CM:004 Describe the use of technology in the channel management function
SOURCE: Transalis. (2023, April 6). 50 years of the barcode: How EDI advances business
automation. Retrieved September 18, 2023, from https://www.transalis.com/blogs/industry-newsand-updates/50-years-of-the-barcode-how-edi-advances-business-automation 

15. Massimo's Corner Grocery sells a variety of fruits and vegetables to consumers within the community. Massimo's is considered a(n) 
A. producer.
B. agent.
C. wholesaler.
D. retailer.

15. D
Retailer. A retailer is a business that buys goods and sells them to the final consumer. Wholesalers are intermediaries who buy goods from producers or agents and resell them to other businesses. Agents are intermediaries who assist in the sale of goods but do not take title to them. Producers are growers, providers, or manufacturers of goods and services. 
SOURCE: CM:003 Explain the nature of channels of distribution
SOURCE: LAP-CM-003--Channel It (Channels of Distribution)

28. One way that a manufacturer can foster positive relationships with its channel members is by 
A. encouraging a competitive culture.
B. using aggressive tactics.
C. selling directly to end users.
D. providing training programs.

28. D
Providing training programs. Positive channel relationships require collaboration among channel members. Collaboration involves sharing relevant information, setting mutually beneficial goals, and developing a teamoriented attitude. Channel leaders have the most power or leverage in the channel, and can implement tactics to foster positive relationships. Providing channel members with product training programs helps channel members be successful in selling the products. Encouraging a competitive culture among channel members, using aggressive tactics, and selling directly to end users are more likely to create conflict and have a negative impact on channel relationships. 
SOURCE: CM:008 Explain the nature of channel-member relationships
SOURCE: Magentrix Corporation. (2018, March 20). PRM 101: Training and certification. Retrieved September
18, 2023, from https://www.magentrix.com/articles/blog/Partner-Relationship-Management-101-1-193-2018 

47. Which of the following factors helps determine if a manufacturer is illegally using closed sales territories for distribution purposes: 
A. Limited risk
B. Reduced competition
C. Increased intensity
D. Perishable goods

47. B
Reduced competition. A distribution channel consists of all the businesses and individuals that move products from the producer to the end user. Governments develop laws to monitor and regulate distribution activities so that individuals and businesses operate in a consistent, fair manner. When a channel member attempts to reduce competition, it may be violating certain laws. One activity that may reduce competition is a manufacturer closing a sales territory to keep its competitors from obtaining access to the market. High distribution intensity, product type (e.g., perishable), and risk level are not factors that determine if a manufacturer is illegally using closed sales territories in relation to the distribution process. 
SOURCE: CM:005 Explain legal considerations in channel management
SOURCE: ZABANGA Marketing. (2023, August 6). Legal and ethical issues in channel relations. Retrieved
September 18, 2023, from https://www.zabanga.us/sales-force/legal-and-ethical-issues-in-channelrelations.html 

60. A retailer buys a variety of toys from a number of different producers and makes them all available for sale in the same place. The retailer is reducing a discrepancy of 
A. quantity.
B. promotion.
C. installation.
D. assortment.

60. D
Assortment. The retailer is reducing a discrepancy of assortment by making a variety of toys available in one place. Reducing a discrepancy of quantity means breaking down a large quantity of a product into smaller quantities for final consumers to buy. There is no such thing as a discrepancy of installation or a discrepancy of promotion. 
SOURCE: CM:001 Explain the nature and scope of channel management
SOURCE: LAP-CM-001--Chart Your Channels (Channel Management)

86. Which of the following is a marketing activity that a business should coordinate with distribution to successfully sell its product: 
A. Production
B. Promotion
C. Training
D. Operations

86. B
Promotion. Promotion is a marketing function that communicates information about goods, services, images, and/or ideas to achieve a desired outcome. To successfully sell its product, a business needs to coordinate all the components of marketing, which include distribution, promotion, product, and price. For example, if a business develops an effective distribution system but fails to promote the product, customers will not know about the product or want it, although it is readily available. Operations is the business function that handles the day-to-day activities necessary to run the business. Production is the operations activity that involves the creation of goods and services from economic resources. Training is a human resources activity. 
SOURCE: CM:007 Coordinate channel management with other marketing activities
SOURCE: BYJU'S (2023). What is promotion? Types of promotion. Retrieved September 18, 2023, from
https://byjus.com/commerce/what-is-promotion 

