1. While Sebastian is presenting his status report during a staff meeting, Danielle has a question about something he says. What should Danielle do? 
A. Interrupt Sebastian so she can ask her question right away
B. Wait to see if another participant has the same question
C. Wait until the next meeting to ask her question
D. Ask the question after Sebastian has finished speaking

1. D
Ask the question after Sebastian has finished speaking. Speakers often ask other meeting participants if they have questions after they finish their presentations. Therefore, Danielle should ask her question after Sebastian finishes his presentation, when he asks if anyone has questions. Interrupting Sebastian while he is speaking to ask a question is disruptive and rude. Other meeting participants may not think of the same question that Danielle has, so she should not rely on others to ask the question. Danielle should not wait until the next meeting, because the information Sebastian provides may be outdated or forgotten by that point. 
SOURCE: CO:063 Participate in a staff meeting
SOURCE: Dagher, K. (2023, April 21). 8 key meeting etiquette rules for professionals in 2023. Retrieved August
8, 2023, from https://fellow.app/blog/meetings/meeting-etiquette-rules/ 

7. Which of the following is an example of informal workplace communication: 
A. A project manager develops a production schedule to distribute to the project team.
B. Two coworkers share their opinions about a new work project during a coffee break.
C. A human resources manager conducts a training session for new employees.
D. The president of the Cantrell Corporation announces expansion plans in a press release.

7. B
Two coworkers share their opinions about a new work project during a coffee break. Informal communication involves a casual exchange of information. This information may or may not include work-related issues. Coworkers who talk about work-related topics while on a coffee break are engaging in informal communication. Informal communication can be positive for businesses because employees often share new ideas that may benefit the business. Formal communication involves following a specific protocol or systematic process to transmit messages. A press release and the distribution of a production schedule are methods of formal communication, as is conducting a training session for new employees. 
SOURCE: CO:092 Choose and use appropriate channel for workplace communication
SOURCE: Business Jargons. (2023). Informal communication. Retrieved August 8, 2023, from
https://businessjargons.com/informal-communication.html 

10. Which of the following is an example of a complimentary close: 
A. Enclosure
B. Yours truly
C. Dear Occupant
D. To Whom It May Concern

10. B
Yours truly. The complimentary close respectfully signals the end of a business letter. "Dear Occupant" and "To Whom It May Concern" are examples of impersonal salutations, which are greetings that do not use the receiver's name. The word "Enclosure" indicates that additional materials that have been referenced in the letter are in the envelope with the letter. 
SOURCE: CO:133 Write business letters
SOURCE: Indeed. (2022, July 9). Complimentary close: Definition, tips and examples. Retrieved August 8,
2023, from https://hk.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/complimentary-close 

14. Which of the following is true about listening: 
A. Passive listening is best for complex messages.
B. Listening occurs automatically.
C. Listening requires effort.
D. Hearing and listening are the same thing.

14. C
Listening requires effort. While hearing occurs automatically, listening does not. Listening is a mental activity that requires effort and is something you actively do. When you listen, you concentrate so your brain can process the meanings of the sounds, words, and sentences. Hearing and listening are not the same thing. Passive listening is listening without paying full attention. It is not focused enough to understand complex material or discover the deeper messages a friend may want to communicate to you. 
SOURCE: CO:017 Demonstrate active listening skills
SOURCE: LAP-CO-017—Listen Up (Demonstrating Active Listening Skills)
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 4 

19. When posting on your company's social media page, it is important to 
A. avoid posting any content that is new or interesting.
B. ensure your message aligns with company values.
C. make aggressive attacks on your competitors' products.
D. say whatever is on your mind at the current moment.

19. B
Ensure your message aligns with company values. The messages you post on your company's social media page should align with company values. If a message is posted that conflicts with organizational values, the company may face public backlash, legal action, or angry customers. People posting on company-run social media pages should not say whatever is on their mind or make aggressive attacks on competitors' products. Both actions would be inappropriate and potentially harmful to the company. It is important, however, to post content that is new and interesting on company-run social media pages. 
SOURCE: CO:206 Distinguish between using social media for business and personal purposes
SOURCE: Barnhart, B. (2023, May 25). The complete guide to social media for businesses. Retrieved August
8, 2023, from https://sproutsocial.com/insights/social-media-for-business/ BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 5 

27. Which of the following activities are part of the revision step of professional writing: 
A. Outlining, writing, and proofreading
B. Analyzing, prewriting, and summarizing
C. Brainstorming, outlining, and drafting
D. Rereading, rearranging, and removing

27. D
Rereading, rearranging, and removing. The revising process involves rereading, adding, rearranging, removing, and replacing content. The purpose of revising is to ensure that the text is written logically, using appropriate word choice and transitions. Brainstorming, outlining, drafting, prewriting, and writing are all preliminary steps in the writing process that occur before revising. Proofreading is a component of the editing process, in which writers check their work for spelling and grammatical errors. Analyzing and summarizing are not generally considered parts of the writing process. 
SOURCE: CO:089 Edit and revise written work consistent with professional standards
SOURCE: Hale, A. (2017). How to revise, edit and proofread your writing. Retrieved August 8, 2023, from
https://www.dailywritingtips.com/how-to-revise-edit-and-proofread-yourwriting/https://www.dailywritingtips.com/how-to-revise-edit-and-proofread-your-writing/ BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 7 

33. Mitchell is writing an email to a company asking for some information he needs to complete a research project. What is the most effective way to close the message? 
A. I need this information ASAP.
B. I appreciate your help with this issue.
C. I wish you the best of luck.
D. I apologize for the inconvenience.

33. B
I appreciate your help with this issue. An inquiry is a request for information. Letters of inquiry are requests for information such as product specifications, prices, job openings, proposals, expertise or consultation, etc. Letting the message recipient know that you appreciate their time and effort is a cordial way to close the message. The message sender might state a time when they plan to follow up with the recipient. Closing the message by saying the information is needed ASAP is rude and unprofessional. Wishing the message recipient luck and extending an apology are inappropriate closings for the situation at hand. 
SOURCE: CO:040 Write inquiries
SOURCE: McBride, S. (2023). Write the letter of inquiry: A step in the right direction. Retrieved August 8, 2023,
from https://resources.foundant.com/blog/write-the-letter-of-inquiry-a-step-in-the-right-direction 

44. Liam is taking notes during a class lecture. He listens carefully, writes down everything the speaker says, and writes as legibly as possible. What common note-taking mistake is Liam making? 
A. Listening carefully
B. Writing down everything the speaker says
C. Writing legibly
D. Taking notes—he should listen carefully without writing

44. B
Writing down everything the speaker says. Writing down everything a speaker says can seem like a good notetaking strategy, but it is often confusing and sometimes impossible. Instead, Liam should focus on writing down the speaker's most important points. Listening carefully and writing legibly are important parts of note-taking. Liam should take notes while he listens carefully. 
SOURCE: CO:085 Utilize note-taking strategies
SOURCE: Winter, S.K. (2022, January 16). Tips for taking notes in class. Retrieved August 8, 2023, from
https://studyskills.com/students/how-to-take-notes-in-class/ 

48. Employees who answer the telephone should give both the name of the business and 
A. their names.
B. its purpose.
C. the time.
D. its address.

48. A
Their names. Answering a business phone requires a more formal procedure than answering a personal phone. People who phone a business expect to be greeted with the name of the company and the name of the person who answered. Customers feel more comfortable dealing with individuals who have identified themselves. It is not necessary for the employee answering the phone to automatically recite the address of the company, explain its purpose, or give the time of day to the caller unless specifically asked. 
SOURCE: CO:114 Handle telephone calls in a businesslike manner
SOURCE: Herrity, J. (2023, March 10). How to answer the phone professionally (With examples). Retrieved
August 8, 2023, from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/how-to-answer-thephone 

57. Which of the following is likely to be the result when coworkers communicate poorly with each other: 
A. Human relations problems
B. Efficient work area
C. Increased job understanding
D. Shared job responsibilities

57. A
Human relations problems. Workers who lack good communication skills have trouble making themselves understood and sharing information with others. This can cause problems among employees, especially those who work closely together. Job understanding might decrease if a supervisor has poor communication skills. Shared job responsibilities and efficiency in the work area are benefits of good communication among employees. 
SOURCE: CO:014 Explain the nature of staff communication
SOURCE: Cooks-Campbell, A. (2022, July 14). Communication is key in the workplace. Here's how to improve.
Retrieved August 8, 2023, from https://www.betterup.com/blog/why-communication-is-key-toworkplace-and-how-to-improve-skills 

60. You want to be sure the book you're using to research a science project is relevant and valid. You should confirm the book is 
A. available at every public library nearby.
B. published by a special interest group.
C. by an author with appropriate credentials.
D. has been reprinted multiple times.

60. C
By an author with appropriate credentials. When evaluating a book's relevance and validity, it's important to make sure the book's author is qualified to write about the subject. A book does not necessarily need to be reprinted multiple times or available at every public library nearby to be relevant and valid. You should evaluate who published the book. Special interest groups may publish materials that are intended to back up their own viewpoints, not present unbiased information. 
SOURCE: CO:054 Identify sources that provide relevant, valid written material
SOURCE: University of Saskatchewan. (2023, April 20). How to evaluate information sources: Critical questions
for evaluating your sources. Retrieved August 8, 2023, from https://libguides.usask.ca/c.php?g=16390&p=90457 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 14 

61. It is most appropriate for businesspeople to use complex, technical jargon when they are 
A. greeting new customers.
B. introducing a friend to a business associate.
C. informally conversing with an acquaintance.
D. speaking with coworkers.

61. D
Speaking with coworkers. Jargon is a specialized language known only to a certain group of people. Industries and companies often use jargon that is meaningful to their businesses and may not be easily understood by people outside their industries or companies. Coworkers are more likely to use jargon because they are familiar with the terms and their meanings or applications. New customers, friends, business associates, and acquaintances may not be familiar with a specific industry's jargon. 
SOURCE: CO:084 Employ communication styles appropriate to target audience
SOURCE: Miller-Wilson, K. (2020, November 3). Examples of jargon: Definition and types. Retrieved August 8,
2023, from https://examples.yourdictionary.com/examples-of-jargon.html 

65. Sasha's science teacher is explaining lab directions to the class. They'll be performing a complicated experiment with many steps that will take about a week. The next day, Sasha tries to remember a step of the directions, but she can't. Which step of following oral directions should Sasha have followed? 
A. Take notes.
B. Acknowledge directions verbally or nonverbally.
C. Make eye contact.
D. Eliminate distractions.

65. A
Take notes. If a speaker is giving you multiple directions at one time, it may be useful to take notes. That way, as you complete your project, you can look back on them. If Sasha had taken notes in her situation, she'd know what to do next in her experiment. Eliminating distractions, making eye contact, and acknowledging directions are all important steps when it comes to following directions, but they are not steps that would help Sasha in this situation. 
SOURCE: CO:119 Follow oral directions
SOURCE: Xdesign. (2022, October 17). 5 steps to giving and following instructions in the workplace. Retrieved
August 8, 2023, from https://thinkx.net/blog/5-steps-to-giving-and-following-instructions-in-theworkplace BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 15 

72. The business manager tried to write a promotional letter that was simple, clear, and interesting so that customers who received it would 
A. need to read it many times.
B. ask what it really meant.
C. find it entertaining.
D. easily understand it.

72. D
Easily understand it. Effective written communications are those that are presented clearly, in simple language, and in an interesting style so that readers will easily understand the message. Written business messages do not need to be entertaining. When written communications are unclear, complicated, or difficult to understand, readers tend to lose interest and ignore them. Readers should not have to read written communications many times to find out what they really mean. 
SOURCE: CO:016 Explain the nature of effective written communications
SOURCE: Indeed. (2023, April 12). A complete guide to effective written communication. Retrieved August 8,
2023, from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/written-communication 

76. An important factor in effective verbal communication is 
A. developing mannerisms.
B. having a pleasant voice.
C. enunciating rapidly.
D. reading from a script.

76. B
Having a pleasant voice. Verbal communication has a much more positive effect on listeners when the speaker has a pleasant voice. Listeners are more likely to concentrate on the speaker's message than they would if the speaker's voice is harsh, unpleasant, or irritating. Enunciating, or pronouncing clearly, is important but should not necessarily be done rapidly. Mannerisms are part of body language, the way you express yourself through posture, facial expression, etc., and these are not forms of verbal communication. While reading from a script is occasionally appropriate, depending on the situation, it is not an important factor in effective verbal communication. 
SOURCE: CO:147 Explain the nature of effective verbal communications
SOURCE: Doyle, A. (2020, September 17). Verbal communication skills list and examples. Retrieved August 8,
2023, from https://www.thebalancemoney.com/verbal-communication-skills-list-2059698 

6. If Jamie wants to improve his active listening skills, he should 
A. improve his reading skills.
B. interrupt the speaker.
C. avoid asking questions.
D. use nonverbal cues.

6. D
Use nonverbal cues. Active listening is a method of listening that involves paying attention, displaying proof of listening, and providing feedback to facilitate the two-way transmission of information. It uses nonverbal cues, paraphrasing, questioning, and other techniques to let a speaker know that a message has been heard and understood. If Jamie wants to improve his active listening skills, he should ask questions to demonstrate he is listening. Jamie should not interrupt the speaker. Improving reading skills does not necessarily improve listening skills. 
SOURCE: CO:017 Demonstrate active listening skills
SOURCE: LAP-CO-017—Listen Up (Demonstrating Active Listening Skills)

35. Which of the following is a way in which social media can be used for business purposes: 
A. Self-expression
B. Marketing and promotion
C. Staying connected with friends
D. Entertainment and humor

35. B
Marketing and promotion. One way in which social media can be used for business purposes is for marketing and promotion. Businesses use social media to reach their target audiences, build brand awareness, promote products and services, etc. Using social media to stay connected with friends, for self-expression, and for entertainment and humor are ways in which social media can be used for personal purposes. 
SOURCE: CO:206 Distinguish between using social media for business and personal purposes
SOURCE: FlexTal (2020, August 25). How to balance between personal and professional social media.
Retrieved January 26, 2024, from https://www.entrepreneur.com/science-technology/how-tobalance-between-personal-and-professional-social/355248 

37. Jerry is in charge of tracking progress and important milestones for his team's current project. To do so, he tracks everything according to the dates they occurred. Jerry is using the __________ method to organize information. 
A. order of importance
B. inverted order
C. compare and contrast
D. chronological order

37. D
Chronological order. There are several methods of organizing information, including chronological order, order of importance, comparison and contrast, etc. Using a chronological organizational method involves sequencing events in the order in which they occurred. Order of importance involves organizing data around the significance of the information. The comparison and contrast method involves organizing information according to its similarities and differences. The inverted order method presents the information in reverse order. 
SOURCE: CO:086 Organize information
SOURCE: Rupp. E.E. (2022, July 4). Organizing information for writing: 7 effective methods to try. Retrieved
January 26, 2024, from https://able.ac/blog/organizing-information 

38. When speakers share knowledge or skills, their purpose is to 
A. persuade.
B. boast.
C. inform.
D. entertain.

38. C
Inform. Different oral presentations have different purposes, such as to inform, to persuade, and to entertain. When speakers share knowledge or skills, their purpose is to inform. Teachers and coaches are two professions that often give informative presentations. When speakers share knowledge or skills, their purpose is not to persuade, entertain, or boast. Speakers use persuasion in a presentation to challenge others to consider and accept new ideas or to take action. Entertaining speeches, given to amuse or inspire, usually occur at special events like weddings or award ceremonies. The purpose of oral presentations is typically not to boast. 
SOURCE: CO:025 Make oral presentations
SOURCE: LAP-CO-025—Well Said! (Making Oral Presentations)
2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 9 

46. When writing an executive summary for a business plan, it is important to 
A. make it long and detailed.
B. sign your name.
C. avoid using bullet points.
D. speak to your audience.

46. D
Speak to your audience. The executive summary is the most important part of a company’s business or marketing plan because it gives an overview of the entire document. Executive summaries are often used to determine whether it is worthwhile to read any further, as they are essentially short, concise, informative, and easy-to-read opening statements for a business plan. When writing an executive summary for a business plan, it is important to speak to your audience. Personalizing the executive summary to the interests of the audience will make it easier to capture the audience’s attention. Rather than making the executive summary long and detailed, it should be short and concise while highlighting the main points of the business plan. Using bullet points is a great way to make an executive summary more readable. It is not typical to sign your name after writing an executive summary for a business plan. 
SOURCE: CO:091 Write executive summaries
SOURCE: Grossman, P. (2020, September 14). How to write an executive summary in 6 steps. Retrieved
January 26, 2024, from https://www.nerdwallet.com/article/small-business/executive-summary 

51. Which of the following is a positive nonverbal cue: 
A. Limiting eye contact
B. Slouching in a chair
C. Crossing your arms
D. Nodding your head

51. D
Nodding your head. Nonverbal communication is communication that uses body language instead of words or to support words. Positive nonverbal cues include nodding your head, maintaining eye contact, demonstrating good posture, and a positive tone of voice. Crossing your arms, slouching in a chair, and limiting eye contact are examples of negative nonverbal cues. 
SOURCE: CO:059 Interpret others' nonverbal cues
SOURCE: Young Entrepreneur Council. (2018, May 4). 14 negative body language signals and speech habits
to avoid. Retrieved January 25, 2024, from https://www.forbes.com/sites/theyec/2018/05/04/14negative-body-language-signals-and-speech-habits-to-avoid 

54. Maya wants to read faster to increase her efficiency. Which of the following should she do to improve her reading skills: 
A. Avoid scanning titles and headings
B. Dive right into reading
C. Memorize key terms and concepts
D. Control her reading environment

54. D
Control her reading environment. To improve her reading skills, it is important for Maya to control her reading environment. By considering where and when she reads, she will give herself the best chance of reading effectively. Somewhere quiet, comfortable, and free of distractions with optimal lighting is ideal for most people to read effectively. Rather than diving right into reading, Maya should prepare herself to get the most out of her reading. This can be done by scanning titles and headings, as it can help her understand the basics of the content. Although understanding key terms and concepts is important, memorizing them won't necessarily help Maya improve her reading skills. 
SOURCE: CO:055 Extract relevant information from written materials
SOURCE: Mind Tools. (2023). Reading strategies. Retrieved January 25, 2024, from
https://www.mindtools.com/a2hjha3/reading-strategies 

80. Which of the following is an effective way to defend ideas objectively: 
A. Prepare ahead of time
B. Limit audience feedback
C. Avoid thanking critics
D. Respond with opinions

80. A
Prepare ahead of time. An effective way to defend ideas objectively is to prepare ahead of time. Whenever you present an idea, there's always a chance someone doesn't understand or agree with your idea. Because of this, it is important to prepare yourself for objections by considering how someone might respond and why, and developing counter arguments to address concerns. When defending ideas objectively, it is important to willingly accept feedback, thank critics for their thoughts, and to respond with facts rather than opinions. 
SOURCE: CO:061 Defend ideas objectively
SOURCE: Miller, K. (2021, December 8). How to defend yourself without being defensive. Retrieved January
26, 2024, from https://www.wikihow.com/Defend-Yourself-Without-Being-Defensive 2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 18 

81. To effectively follow directions in the workplace, it is important to 
A. avoid asking questions.
B. listen passively.
C. rely on your memory.
D. respond with a good attitude.

81. D
Respond with a good attitude. To effectively follow directions in the workplace, it is important to respond with a good attitude. It is important to demonstrate respect and a good attitude when your manager or supervisor gives you instructions. Demonstrating a bad attitude will not only make it more difficult to the person giving directions, but it will also likely make the task you're performing more difficult. Asking questions, actively listening, and taking notes (rather than relying on your memory) are important steps you can take to effectively follow directions in the workplace. 
SOURCE: CO:119 Follow oral directions
SOURCE: XDesign. (2024). 5 steps to giving & following instructions in the workplace. Retrieved January 25,
2024, from https://thinkx.net/blog/5-steps-to-giving-and-following-instructions-in-the-workplace 

83. Which of the following is considered a rich form of communication: 
A. Blog
B. Video conference
C. Voice message
D. Email

83. B
Video conference. Communication channels differ on a scale from rich to lean. Rich channels are channels that offer more interaction, provide opportunities for two-way communication, and allow both the sender and receiver to read nonverbal messages. Examples of rich channels of communication include face-to-face meetings, video conferences, and in-person oral presentations. Lean channels present information without allowing for immediate interaction. Examples of lean channels of communication include voice messages, blogs, emails, newsletters, texts, and social media posts. 
SOURCE: CO:092 Choose and use appropriate channel for workplace communication
SOURCE: LibreTexts Business. (n.d.). Communication channels. Retrieved January 26, 2024, from
https://biz.libretexts.org/Courses/Lumen_Learning/Introduction_to_Business_(Lumen)/25%3A_ Module_11-_Teamwork_and_Communication/25.11%3A_Communication_Channels 

87. Which of the following occurs during the revision stage of written work: 
A. Deleting unnecessary words
B. Fixing typos
C. Correcting spelling errors
D. Tweaking transitions

87. D
Tweaking transitions. During the revision stage of written work, you should concentrate on the big picture and the overall flow of the work. This can include tweaking transitions between paragraphs or sections, looking for gaps in logic, points that need more information to back them up, and any information not included. The editing and proofreading stage of written work involves fixing typos, deleting unnecessary words, and correcting spelling errors. 
SOURCE: CO:089 Edit and revise written work consistent with professional standards
SOURCE: Hale, A. (2024). How to revise, edit, and proofread your writing. Retrieved January 26, 2024, from
https://www.dailywritingtips.com/how-to-revise-edit-and-proofread-your-writing 

14. To be understood on the phone, a business's employees should always 
A. speak from notes.
B. use filler words.
C. speak rapidly.
D. enunciate clearly.

14. D
Enunciate clearly. Enunciating clearly involves speaking clearly and distinctly, which makes the message easy for the listener to follow. The message may not be clear if employees mumble or speak rapidly. It is sometimes useful to have notes when speaking on the phone, but it is not always necessary. Other guidelines to follow are to use appropriate vocabulary and to avoid using an excessive amount of "filler" words, such as "um" and "uh." Filler words can be distracting and often indicate that the speaker is unsure about what they are saying. 
SOURCE: CO:114 Handle telephone calls in a businesslike manner
SOURCE: Indeed. (2022, June 24). 15 phone skills to use when communicating with customers. Retrieved October
2, 2023, from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/phone-skills BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 4 

19. If a manager wants to be sure they correctly interpret their employees' nonverbal cues, how should they communicate with them? 
A. Through an office-wide memo
B. By phone
C. Face-to-face
D. By email

19. C
Face-to-face. With face-to-face communication, a manager would be able to observe their employees' nonverbal communication. This is not possible when communicating via phone, email, or office memo. 
SOURCE: CO:092 Choose and use appropriate channel for workplace communication
SOURCE: UCPath Center. (n.d.). Why nonverbal communication matters in the workplace. Retrieved October 2,
2023, from https://ucpathjobs.org/working-at-uc/nonverbal-communication-matters-workplace BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 5 

24. To participate effectively in a staff meeting, you should 
A. read important documents and do research ahead of time so you're prepared.
B. share your opinion on each topic discussed so your manager knows you're paying attention.
C. bring up any personal concerns so that they can be discussed with the group.
D. answer emails during slow points so you don't waste any company time.

24. A
Read important documents and do research ahead of time so you're prepared. The most important way to participate in a staff meeting is by making sure you're prepared. Read any necessary documents and do research if needed. Personal concerns should not be brought up in staff meetings; instead, bring these up in private meetings with your manager. Although you may be tempted to respond to emails or check your phone during any slow points in the meeting, it's important to pay attention. Even if you don't know much about the topic everyone else is discussing, listen politely. You don't need to share your opinion about everything being discussed. You don't want to dominate the conversation—give someone else a chance to speak. Quietly listening is appropriate and polite. 
SOURCE: CO:063 Participate in a staff meeting
SOURCE: Milano, S. (2022, June 17). Six tips on how to participate in a meeting. Retrieved October 2, 2023,
from https://work.chron.com/six-tips-participate-meeting-2014.html BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 6 

29. Kerry, Oliver, and Caroline are working together to develop a solution for their company's increasing employeeturnover rate. However, Caroline keeps attempting to convince the group that her ideas are better than any other alternatives. This is an example of what disadvantage of group problem-solving? 
A. Greater output
B. Lack of direction
C. Time constraints
D. Competition

29. D
Competition. In group problem-solving situations, some people may become competitive and try to sway the group into implementing their ideas even if their ideas are not necessarily better. Caroline's repeated attempts to convince the group that her ideas are best is an example of competition—a disadvantage to group problem-solving. Greater output is an example of an advantage of group problem-solving, not a disadvantage. Lack of direction and time constraints are also potential disadvantages of group problem-solving, but they are not demonstrated in this example. 
SOURCE: CO:067 Participate in problem-solving groups
SOURCE: ITS Education Asia. (2005-2022). Solving problems using a group—advantages and disadvantages.
Retrieved October 2, 2023, from https://www.itseducation.asia/article/solving-problems-using-a-groupadvantages-and-disadvantages 

31. When giving verbal directions, you should 
A. choose high-level, academic vocabulary.
B. generalize instructions so individuals can interpret them in their own ways.
C. use a commanding, authoritative voice.
D. make sure your instructions are aimed toward a specific goal.

31. D
Make sure your instructions are aimed toward a specific goal. The audience will be able to follow directions better if they are aware of the activity's purpose. You should not use high-level, academic vocabulary because your listeners may not be familiar with the terms, causing confusion. When giving directions, your tone should be confident but pleasant, rather than commanding or authoritative, to make sure your audience is comfortable and receptive. Finally, you should not generalize instructions because in most cases, you do not want your audience members to have differing interpretations. Rather, you should avoid any vagueness and be as specific as possible. 
SOURCE: CO:083 Give verbal directions
SOURCE: Sweet, K. (2020). How to give verbal instructions. Retrieved October 2, 2023,
from https://classroom.synonym.com/the-great-pumpkin-quiz.html 

40. After Lana finishes writing the promotional copy for a direct-mail letter, she plans to proofread and edit her work on her computer. What technique should Lana use to determine if the text is clear and logical? 
A. Correcting grammatical mistakes
B. Correcting punctuation errors
C. Reading the text backwards
D. Reading the text aloud

40. D
Reading the text aloud. By reading the text aloud, Lana will not only see the text, she will hear it. By hearing the words, Lana can detect missing words and assess the clarity and sequence of the information. Reading text backwards helps detect misspelled words, punctuation errors, and some grammatical errors, but this activity does not help the editor clarify that content is logical and meaningful. 
SOURCE: CO:089 Edit and revise written work consistent with professional standards
SOURCE: University of North Carolina Writing Center. (2023). Reading aloud. Retrieved October 2, 2023, from
https://writingcenter.unc.edu/tips-and-tools/reading-aloud 

41. When talking with friends, you might use a(n) __________ communication style, but when talking with your company's CEO, you should use a(n) __________ communication style. 
A. passive; assertive
B. informal; formal
C. verbal; nonverbal
D. internal; external

41. B
Informal; formal. Informal communication is communication that is less bound to conventions and is more casual, whereas formal communication is a strategic exchange of information that adheres to conventions. When you are with your friends, you likely use an informal communication style, but when you are talking to your company's CEO, you should use more formal communication. External communication is any contact between an employee and someone outside of the company. Internal communication is communication that occurs inside the workplace. Internal communication would not occur with friends, and external communication would not occur between you and your company's CEO. A passive communication style involves keeping feelings hidden and avoiding conflict. Assertive communication involves sharing opinions and advocating for oneself. Passive and assertive communication styles do not necessarily change based on whether you are talking to your friends or your CEO. Finally, you will likely use verbal and nonverbal communication when communicating with both your CEO and your friends. 
SOURCE: CO:084 Employ communication styles appropriate to target audience
SOURCE: Rawes, E.M. (2019, May 8). Types of communication in the workplace. Retrieved October 2, 2023,
from https://bizfluent.com/info-7742528-types-communication-workplace.html 

45. To evaluate any idea objectively, it is important to consider 
A. market research.
B. potential problems.
C. personal opinions.
D. competitors' activities.

45. B
Potential problems. Objectivity involves evaluating something without bias. To evaluate without bias, you should look at the situation from different points of view and evaluate the positives and negatives of the ideas presented. Developing a pros-and-cons list can help you identify possible benefits and problems associated with an idea. Conducting research (e.g., market research, competitive analysis) and obtaining facts to support an idea may or may not be necessary. 
SOURCE: CO:061 Defend ideas objectively
SOURCE: Anderson, B. (2018-2023). Great leaders stay objective. Retrieved October 2, 2023,
from https://www.sigmaassessmentsystems.com/objectivity 

46. What is a type of informal communication that coworkers often use to communicate with each other? 
A. Feedback
B. Network
C. Grapevine
D. Structured

46. C
Grapevine. Grapevine is an oral communication method in which information is passed around the company but not formally announced or verified. Coworkers frequently discuss company issues and pass on information from one department to another through the grapevine. Employees often obtain information and communicate it to others through the grapevine before management makes an official announcement. Feedback is evaluative information given by supervisors to employees. Network is a system of contacts within and outside the organization. Structured is formal communication. 
SOURCE: CO:014 Explain the nature of staff communication
SOURCE: Harappa. (2020, July 21). Grapevine communication in various business scenarios. Retrieved October
2, 2023, from https://harappa.education/harappa-diaries/what-is-grapevine-communication 

55. Shawn is preparing for an interview with a local company. He knows that he should ask relevant questions about the job at the end of the interview. Which of the following will help him prepare these questions: 
A. Asking his friends what questions they think he should ask
B. Conducting research about the company prior to the interview
C. Finding background information about the interviewer's high school and asking them about it to form a
personal relationship D. Relying on the interviewer to generate the questions

55. B
Conducting research about the company prior to the interview. From the research, Shawn can write a few questions that directly relate to the company or its industry. Even though additional questions may come up during the interview, it is always best to be prepared with relevant questions based on research. It is important that Shawn confirms that the questions are relevant by researching them himself instead of taking his friends' (or anyone else's) advice. Questions about the interviewer's personal life are not relevant to the job interview. 
SOURCE: CO:058 Ask relevant questions
SOURCE: Zhang, L. (2020, June 19). The ultimate guide to researching a company pre-interview. Retrieved
October 2, 2023, from https://www.themuse.com/advice/the-ultimate-guide-to-researching-a-companypreinterview BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 13 

64. Nia, the manager of a large group of employees in her company, is responsible for planning the annual holiday party. To determine which toppings her employees like on their pizza, Nia created an online survey for her team to complete with the options cheese, pepperoni, sausage, meat lovers, veggie, and other. She wants to know how many employees prefer each specific topping and compare the totals of each selection. So, she created a graph that represents the totals across two axes. What type of graph did Nia create? 
A. Pie chart
B. Line graph
C. Table
D. Bar graph

64. D
Bar graph. The graph that Nia created is a bar graph. Bar graphs are used to compare absolute values or proportions between different groups or categories, and they represent the data using a series of bars across two axes. Because Nia wants to compare the total number, or absolute value, of employees that chose each topping, a bar graph is the best option for her. A pie chart, a circular graph that displays percentages of a whole as if they were slices of a pie, is best to use when trying to compare parts of a whole. Unlike bar graphs, pie charts can't be used to explicitly show absolute number values for each group. A line graph is similar to a bar graph in that it also shows data across two axes. However, line graphs are typically used to track changes over short and long periods of time. There is not a time element in this scenario. A table displays information in rows and columns, not across two axes. 
SOURCE: CO:087 Select and use appropriate graphic aids
SOURCE: Johnson, L. (2018, April 23). Difference between a bar graph & pie chart. Retrieved October 2, 2023,
from https://sciencing.com/difference-bar-graph-pie-chart-5832998.html BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 15 

73. To better understand and follow directions on the job, employees often 
A. practice tasks.
B. review notes.
C. do research.
D. ask questions.

73. D
Ask questions. Before employees can follow directions, they must understand them. Therefore, asking questions is important because supervisors do not always give directions in a clear and concise manner. If employees are not sure of what is expected, they should ask. Taking the time to completely understand the directions will help employees do the work correctly and efficiently. Reviewing notes may not be helpful if employees have written down incorrect directions. Employees are not expected to do the research; researching is the responsibility of supervisors. Before employees can practice tasks, they need accurate directions. 
SOURCE: CO:119 Follow oral directions
SOURCE: Chan, G. (2021, February 1). Why asking questions is good for your brand and your career. Retrieved
October 2, 2023, from https://www.forbes.com/sites/goldiechan/2021/02/01/why-asking-questions-isgood-for-your-brand-and-your-career BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 17 

78. One characteristic of letters of inquiry that businesses write to request information from other businesses is that they are 
A. social.
B. formal.
C. complex.
D. short.

78. D
Short. A characteristic of letters of inquiry is that they are usually short. Businesses often write letters of inquiry to other businesses to request information and literature or to order goods or services. These types of letters are routine and should contain only the information the receiver needs to respond. Letters of inquiry requesting information usually are not complex. Social business letters do not request information but often are used to express thanks or congratulations. Letters of inquiry that businesses write to request information from other businesses usually are informal rather than formal. 
SOURCE: CO:040 Write inquiries
SOURCE: WriteExpress. (1996-2023). How to write an inquiry letter. Retrieved October 2, 2023,
from https://www.writeexpress.com/How-to-write-an-inquiry-letter.html 

83. Which of the following is a communication technique that supports and encourages a speaker: 
A. Taking notes
B. Making comments
C. Speed reading
D. Active listening

83. D
Active listening. Listening is a communication technique that involves processing and understanding a verbal message. When people actively listen for understanding, they support and encourage a speaker who is attempting to deliver a message. Active listening involves paying attention to respond to the speaker. Taking notes and speed reading are not communication techniques. Making comments might encourage a speaker if the comments are appropriate. However, some comments may discourage a speaker. 
SOURCE: CO:082 Explain communication techniques that support and encourage a speaker
SOURCE: SkillsYouNeed.com. (2011-2023). Active listening. Retrieved October 2, 2023,
from https://www.skillsyouneed.com/ips/active-listening.html 

99. Active listening includes more than paying close attention to a speaker. It also involves asking questions, paraphrasing or summarizing main ideas, and participating in __________ that show the speaker that you are actively engaged in what they are saying. 
A. nonverbal cues
B. polite conversation
C. optimism
D. appropriate attire

99. A
Nonverbal cues. Nonverbal cues, such as maintaining eye contact, leaning forward, or nodding, can demonstrate to speakers that you are actively listening and engaged in what they are saying. This is an important aspect of active listening, which represents more than just paying attention and hearing what a speaker is saying. Displaying optimism can have a positive effect on a workplace, as can participating in polite conversation, but neither demonstrate active listening practices. Appropriate attire is also important in meetings and any professional environment but has no bearing on active listening. 
SOURCE: CO:017 Demonstrate active listening skills
SOURCE: LAP-CO-017—Listen Up! (Demonstrating Active Listening Skills)

13. Which of the following is a component of verbal communication between individuals: 
A. Facial expression
B. Body posture
C. Eye contact
D. Listening

13. D
Listening. Listening involves not only hearing what the speaker is saying but making appropriate verbal responses. It is an essential component, or part, of verbal communication. Facial expressions, eye contact, and body posture are examples of nonverbal communication. 
SOURCE: CO:147 Explain the nature of effective verbal communications
SOURCE: Skills You Need. (2023). Verbal communication skills. Retrieved August 3, 2023, from
https://www.skillsyouneed.com/ips/verbal-communication.html 

37. A request made by an employee to a supervisor is an example of what type of communication? 
A. Horizontal
B. Grapevine
C. Downward
D. Upward

37. D
Upward. Upward communication is defined as communication that moves up the chain of command (e.g., employee to supervisor). Downward communication moves down the chain from management to employees. Horizontal communication is communication with someone on the same level within the business. Grapevine communication is unofficial messages passed among fellow employees. 
SOURCE: CO:014 Explain the nature of staff communication
SOURCE: Sociabble. (2022, September 12). Upward communication: How to improve it and increase employee
engagement. Retrieved August 3, 2023, from https://www.sociabble.com/blog/employeecommunications/upward-communication-employee-engagement/ 

77. Effective headings in research reports are 
A. vague.
B. lengthy.
C. non-parallel.
D. descriptive.

77. D
Descriptive. Headings and subheadings are a useful part of research reports, but they must be descriptive of the content. Headings should not be lengthy; rather, they should be concise. Headings should not be vague, but instead should be clear and specific. Finally, headings should be parallel, rather than non-parallel. 
SOURCE: CO:186 Write research reports
SOURCE: Victoria University of Wellington. (2017, April). How to write a business report. Retrieved August 4,
2023, from https://www.wgtn.ac.nz/learning-teaching/support/approach/steps-to-teachingsuccess/resources/WSBG-report-writing-guide-2017.pdf BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 18 

85. Which of the following is a good way to end a business phone call: 
A. Make small talk about the caller's day.
B. List all of the points made in the call.
C. Wait for the caller to speak before deciding the call is over.
D. Offer your email address if the caller needs additional information.

85. D
Offer your email address if the caller needs additional information. By providing your email address, you create another line of communication for the caller in case they need additional information. Providing your email address is also a good way to indicate that you would like to end the call without being abrupt. While summarizing the key points made in the call can be helpful, it is unnecessary to list every point made. You are more likely to make small talk about a caller's day at the beginning of a call versus at the end. Waiting for the caller to speak can cause confusion, especially if you are leading the call. 
SOURCE: CO:114 Handle telephone calls in a businesslike manner
SOURCE: Bucki, J. (2019, November 20). How to end a business phone call. Retrieved August 3, 2023, from
https://www.liveabout.com/end-phone-calls-professionally-2533712 BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 20 

86. Which of the following statements regarding employees' use of social media is true: 
A. When employees make negative comments about their company, it generates positive publicity.
B. Employees of large companies should never be allowed to have personal social media pages.
C. An employee's personal social media pages have no impact on the company.
D. An employee's social media “brand” can impact the company's overall image.

86. D
An employee's social media “brand” can impact the company's overall image. Employees are often the “face” of a company. As a result, anything that an employee posts on social media—positive or negative—can impact their company's overall brand. Employees who make negative comments about their company do not generate positive publicity; rather, negative comments usually generate negative publicity for the company. Employees of any size company should not be banned from having personal social media pages. However, they should be trained in proper social media etiquette so that they don't risk harming the company's reputation. 
SOURCE: CO:205 Describe the impact of a person's social media brand on the achievement of organizational
objectives 
SOURCE: McLachlan, S. (2022, November 30). How to create effective social media guidelines for your
business. Retrieved August 3, 2023, from https://blog.hootsuite.com/social-media-guidelines/ 

99. When developing persuasive business letters, it is most important for the writers to think about the readers' 
A. possible objections.
B. personal images.
C. decision-making styles.
D. nonverbal cues.

99. A
Possible objections. The purpose of a persuasive letter is to convey information that encourages the reader to take a specific course of action. For example, the purpose of a sales letter is to motivate a person to buy a particular product. An objection is a reason for not taking a specific course of action. When developing persuasive messages, it is important for the writers to think about the readers' possible objections and acknowledge them. By acknowledging the objections and providing a rationale that removes the objections, the writers better position themselves in persuading the readers to take specific actions. Because each reader has different personal images and decisionmaking styles, it is not feasible for the writer to consider these factors if the letter is going to a lot of people. The readers' nonverbal cues cannot be seen when writing persuasive messages. 
SOURCE: CO:031 Write persuasive messages
SOURCE: Richards, L. (2023). Persuasive & effective business communication. Retrieved August 3, 2023, from
https://smallbusiness.chron.com/executive-communication-techniques-810.html 

7. What should you do when writing a research report? 
A. Avoid using visuals
B. Consider societal trends while writing
C. Have a clear research objective
D. Discuss every discovery from research

7. C
Have a clear research objective. A research report is a publication that recounts details about a conducted research project. When writing a research report, it is important to have a clear research objective, as doing so will keep the report focused on the topic at hand. Rather than discussing every discovery from your research, you should discuss only the discoveries that are significant. It is important to use visuals (such as graphs and charts). It is usually not necessary to consider societal trends while writing, unless they are relevant to the research objective. 
SOURCE: CO:186 Write research reports
SOURCE: Bhat, A. (2023). Research reports: Definition and how to write them. Retrieved October 10, 2023,
from https://www.questionpro.com/blog/research-reports 

36. Jamie arrives at the venue to give his presentation. However, right before he is set to present, he realizes the projector won’t connect to his laptop—he no longer has his slides that accompany his speech. What presentation step has Jamie forgotten? 
A. Speak in a simple, clear manner
B. Familiarize yourself with the venue
C. Don’t ignore your audience
D. Show up on time to the venue

36. B
Familiarize yourself with the venue. Presenters should always familiarize themselves with the venue where they are speaking, including the equipment they intend to use. Jamie did not check the projector ahead of time, making his presentation a more difficult endeavor. Jamie has not yet begun presenting, so he has not ignored his audience or spoken in an unclear manner. Jamie did show up on time to the venue, but he forgot to check the equipment. 
SOURCE: CO:055 Extract relevant information from written materials
SOURCE: MindTools. (2023). 10 common presentation mistakes. Retrieved October 16, 2023, from
https://www.mindtools.com/avmnivr/10-common-presentation-mistakes 2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 9 

44. Most research reports include a brief overview that highlights all the important aspects of the research in a concise manner. This best describes what element of a research report? 
A. Findings
B. Conclusion
C. Abstract
D. Introduction

44. C
Abstract. An abstract in a research report is a brief overview that highlights all the important aspects of the research in a concise manner. Abstracts are always brief, go straight to the point, and come before the introduction. The introduction of a research report highlights the objectives of the research, the problem the research sets to solve, and the specifics of the research problem. The findings section details the results of the research. The conclusion comes at the end of the report and is a summary of all of the information in the report and outlines the significance of the entire study. 
SOURCE: CO:186 Write research reports
SOURCE: Longe, B. (2023, July 27). Research report: Definition, types + [writing guide]. Retrieved October 10,
2023, from https://www.formpl.us/blog/research-report 2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 11 

54. To maintain a professional social media presence, businesses must develop a 
A. cyberlaw.
B. knowledge gap.
C. content strategy.
D. labor contract

54. C
Content strategy. A content strategy is the practice of planning content, deliverables, or materials to be presented to the public. In the case of social media, a content strategy helps businesses maintain a professional online presence. A knowledge gap is an area or subject an individual or group don’t know anything about. A labor contract is an agreement between a union and a company outlining the wages, fringe benefits, working conditions, and rules under which employees will work. Cyberlaws are regulations that apply to online activities. 
SOURCE: CO:206 Distinguish between using social media for business and personal purposes
SOURCE: Gibbings, M. (2022, August 9). Strengthen your professional presence on social media. Retrieved
October 16, 2023, from https://hbr.org/2022/08/strengthen-your-professional-presence-on-socialmedia 

92. What is the final step of writing a recommendation report? 
A. Summarizing findings
B. Selecting a format
C. Describing the situation
D. Conducting research

92. A
Summarizing findings. The final step to writing a recommendation report is to summarize your findings. By summarizing your findings, it makes it easier for the audience to interpret your recommendations and draw their own conclusions. The first step of writing a recommendation report is to select a format. This is followed by describing the situation, conducting research, qualifying alternatives, and, finally, summarizing findings. 
SOURCE: CO:185 Write analytical reports (i.e., reports that examine a problem/issue and recommend an
action) 
SOURCE: Small Business - Chron. (2021, June 17). Steps to take in writing a recommendation report.
Retrieved October 4, 2023, from https://work.chron.com/steps-writing-recommendation-report28828.html 2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 22 

93. Jaylynn decides to organize her information from oldest to newest. The method of organization Jalynn has chosen is 
A. chronological order.
B. comparison and contrast.
C. deductive organization.
D. order of importance.

93. A
Chronological order. Chronological order places information or data into sequences of time or dates. By organizing information based on time—oldest to newest—Jaylynn is organizing her information chronologically. The order of importance method sorts information based on strength or relevance. Comparison and contrast method identifies similarities and differences between information. Deductive organization begins with a hypothesis, recommendation, or thesis and is followed by supportive facts and reasoning. 
SOURCE: CO:086 Organize information
SOURCE: Burke, A. (2019, March 7). Examples of methods of organization. Retrieved October 16, 2023,
https://smallbusiness.chron.com/examples-methods-organization-18982.html 

32. While reading the first draft of her report, Rachel changes some of the words and shortens some of the sentences to improve the clarity and conciseness of the document. What step in the writing process is Rachel performing? 
A. Organizing
B. Researching
C. Editing
D. Formatting

32. C
Editing. Editing is the process of assessing the flow and clarity of written materials. Effective editing often involves reorganizing or shortening sentences, changing words, and correcting spelling and grammatical errors to improve the readability of the document. Researching is the process of gathering information for the report, which is done before the writing process begins. Organizing involves planning the order in which to present the information in the document. Formatting involves establishing the "mechanical" structure of the document, such as using block or indented paragraphs, page-number location, etc. 
SOURCE: CO:089 Edit and revise written work consistent with professional standards
SOURCE: Gregg Learning. (2018, November 30). The editing process for business writing. [Video]. Retrieved
September 20, 2023, from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3gyBfNsZSdk 

40. How can you make sure you have understood what someone has said? 
A. Lean forward to demonstrate your interest.
B. Nod and smile to show you are on the same page.
C. Summarize and restate their key points.
D. Stop the conversation after every point to ask questions.

40. C
Summarize and restate their key points. If you want to be sure that you have understood what someone has said, a good way to do so is to summarize and restate their key points to make sure you have accurately heard and comprehended them. If your restatement does not align with what the other person has said, they will offer further clarification. While it is okay to stop the conversation to ask a question once in a while, if you do so repeatedly, the conversation will stall and the other person will become frustrated by your interruptions. Leaning forward demonstrates interest, but it does not necessarily help ensure understanding. Also, nodding and smiling show you are listening but do not necessarily help ensure you are understanding. 
SOURCE: CO:017 Demonstrate active listening skills
SOURCE: LAP-CO-017—Listen Up! (Demonstrating Active Listening Skills)

44. Maggie is writing an analytical report for the company's board of directors. She knows that some of the board members will disagree with the conclusions that she plans to present in the report. What should Maggie do to appeal to these board members? 
A. Develop a comprehensive bibliography
B. Focus on the evidence that supports her conclusions
C. Include several colorful graphs and diagrams
D. Provide unrelated facts to distract readers from the primary issue

44. B
Focus on the evidence that supports her conclusions. An analytical report is a document that explains and evaluates an issue, opportunity, or problem. When developing an analytical report that addresses a controversial issue or contains information that readers might disagree with, Maggie should provide evidence and logical arguments that explain and support her conclusions. By providing evidence and logical arguments, Maggie is more likely to persuade readers to accept the conclusions. Colorful graphics, a bibliography, and unrelated facts are not likely to sway board members into agreeing with the conclusions presented in the report. 
SOURCE: CO:185 Write analytical reports (i.e., reports that examine a problem/issue and recommend an
action) 
SOURCE: Layfield, E. (2017, February 18). How to write an analytical report. Retrieved September 21, 2023,
from https://penandthepad.com/write-analytical-report-5142708.html 

51. In what section of a research report would a writer place the following statement: "A study conducted by York University indicated that many U.S. pharmaceutical companies are spending twice the money on their promotional efforts as they are on product research and development." 
A. Conclusion
B. Results
C. Introduction
D. Methodology

51. C
Introduction. The purpose of a research report is to summarize information gathered from an investigation. Companies often review the research report and use it to make business decisions. Research reports contain several sections. The introduction states the problem, purpose, and significance of the investigation. Often, the introduction includes background or historical information and statistical data that have already been gathered, which relates to the problem or purpose of the study. Because the statement focuses on a study that York University has already published, the statement should be included in the background component of the report's introduction. The methodology section focuses on the procedures used to gather the information for the study. The conclusion discusses the research findings and may include recommendations. The analysis is provided in the results section of a research report. 
SOURCE: CO:186 Write research reports
SOURCE: Center for Innovation in Research and Teaching. (n.d.). Components of a research paper. Retrieved
September 21, 2023, from https://cirt.gcu.edu/research/developmentresources/tutorials/researchpaper 

71. Jorge is sharing a humorous story with his audience members, who are looking at him and laughing. Jorge can assume that the audience is 
A. inspired.
B. informed.
C. engaged.
D. persuaded.

71. C
Engaged. By looking at the speaker and laughing while he tells a humorous story, the audience is showing that they are engaged in the presentation. There is no indication that the audience is informed, inspired, or persuaded. 
SOURCE: CO:025 Make oral presentations
SOURCE: LAP-CO-025—Well Said! (Making Oral Presentations)

73. The sales manager sends an email to the distribution center manager to ask if a specific shipment has been received. What type of communication is occurring in this situation? 
A. Horizontal
B. Downward
C. Upward
D. Personal

73. A
Horizontal. Horizontal communication is information exchanged between persons on the same job level (e.g., manager to manager, or salesperson to salesperson). Upward communication involves sending messages to those with more authority in the organization (e.g., subordinate to manager). On the other hand, downward communication occurs when a person of authority sends a message to a person of less authority (e.g., manager to subordinate). Personal communication involves messages that are not directly related to business activities. For example, personal communication occurs when a group of coworkers discuss where to go for lunch. 
SOURCE: CO:014 Explain the nature of staff communication
SOURCE: The Business Communication. (2023). What is horizontal communication? Effective horizontal
communication. Retrieved September 20, 2023, from https://thebusinesscommunication.com/whatis-horizontal-communication/ 

88. Which of the following helps the reader find specific elements of a formal report: 
A. Conclusion
B. Title page
C. Executive summary
D. Table of contents

88. D
Table of contents. The table of contents is in the front of the report, and it directs readers to areas of the report that are of particular interest to them. A title page identifies the report's subject, author(s), and the place and location of preparation. A short synopsis of the report is called an executive summary. The conclusion summarizes the main points based solely on the report's findings. 
SOURCE: CO:009 Prepare complex written reports
SOURCE: Hollis, L. (n.d.). How to write an annotated table of contents. Retrieved August 10, 2023, from
https://penandthepad.com/how-2005986-write-article-subtitle.html 

4. Business employees typically write proposals to management to 
A. analyze a project's progress.
B. share a plan of action.
C. request a raise.
D. air grievances.

4. B
Share a plan of action. A proposal is a document that details a plan of action, an idea, or a request for funding; provides a solution to a problem; or suggests a change in operations. By writing proposals, business employees are providing information to management that will help management make decisions. While they might write proposals that deal with the grievance procedure, employees do not write proposals to air grievances. Employees do not write proposals to request a raise; rather, they may write a proposal to request funding for a project. Proposals are not intended to analyze a project's progress. 
SOURCE: CO:062 Write proposals
SOURCE: Technical Writer HQ. (2024). What is proposal writing? Retrieved January 11, 2024, from
https://technicalwriterhq.com/writing/proposal-writing 2024 HS ICDC ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 2 

36. Katie has developed a new product idea and plans to share it at the next staff meeting. Katie knows that some coworkers will object to her idea. When her coworkers share concerns that her idea won't work, Katie should 
A. explain that there is no proof her idea wouldn't work.
B. remind her coworkers that they are sharing opinions, not facts.
C. acknowledge their concerns and respond in a respectful manner.
D. repeat her proposal because it is based on quality research.

36. C
Acknowledge their concerns and respond in a respectful manner. To objectively defend an idea, it is important to acknowledge any concerns, consider them, and respond in a respectful manner. Stating that there is no proof that the idea wouldn't work does little to defend the idea and does not demonstrate an objective attitude. While it may be true that Katie's coworkers are only sharing opinions, their opinions may be based on years of experience and should be considered. Information based on quality research can provide good insight, but repeating the information does little to defend against concerns and does not demonstrate objectivity. 
SOURCE: CO:061 Defend ideas objectively
SOURCE: Haddock, P. (2019, June 8). Defend your ideas without becoming defensive. Retrieved August 8,
2023, from https://gohighbrow.com/defend-your-ideas-without-becoming-defensive/ 

44. Which of the following is a graphic aid that uses text to depict a sequence of events or the order of a process: 
A. Geographic map
B. Bar chart
C. Pie chart
D. Flowchart

44. D
Flowchart. A flowchart presents a visual depiction of activities or processes in sequential order. Flowcharts use text in a graphic format to present activities and processes. An example of a flowchart is an organizational chart, which depicts the hierarchy of positions and departments within an organization. A pie chart is a graphic aid that shows the frequency or distribution of parts in relation to a whole concept. A bar chart compares two or more variables in a graphical format. A geographic map is an illustration that shows the physical attributes (i.e., mountains, rivers) of a location or region. 
SOURCE: CO:087 Select and use appropriate graphic aids
SOURCE: Smartdraw. (1994-2023). Flowchart. Retrieved August 8, 2023, from
https://www.smartdraw.com/flowchart/ 

65. Phoebe is the manager of a small company. One of her employees has been showing up late and missing work frequently. What channel of communication should Phoebe use to discuss this issue with them? 
A. Face-to-face conversation
B. A video conference
C. An email message
D. A company-wide memo

65. A
Face-to-face conversation. When discussing sensitive issues, face-to-face communication is the best strategy because it is the richest form of communication and has the least risk of misinterpretation. If Phoebe were to write an email, her employee may not understand her tone or meaning. A company-wide memo is inappropriate because this is an issue that should be only between Phoebe and the employee in question. Finally, video conferences are generally used when people are not in the same location and do not offer any benefits that a face-to-face conversation does not provide. 
SOURCE: CO:092 Choose and use appropriate channel for workplace communication
SOURCE: Fenell, Z. (2017, September 26). Importance of communication channels in business. Retrieved
August 8, 2023, from https://bizfluent.com/about-6511827-importance-communication-channelsbusiness.html 

82. What does a group's leader do? 
A. Takes the meeting minutes
B. Makes sure the group members agree
C. Puts the group on a certain course
D. Follows up with everyone

82. C
Puts the group on a certain course. Though each person in the group has the ability to influence the others, there's usually a leader who puts the group on a certain course. The leader does not necessarily take the meeting minutes, nor do they have to follow up with everyone later. In addition, the group members do not have to agree, though they may. 
SOURCE: CO:053 Participate in group discussions
SOURCE: UNSW Sydney. (2022, March 28). Guide to discussion skills. Retrieved August 8, 2023, from
https://student.unsw.edu.au/discussion-skills 

84. The primary purpose of placing headings and subheadings in a long business report is to 
A. organize content in a cohesive, manageable way.
B. attract attention to the writer's hidden agenda.
C. solicit an opinion or response from the audience.
D. provide supporting evidence for key points.

84. A
Organize content in a cohesive, manageable way. Long business reports often contain a lot of information about different topics. To organize the information so the audience can understand the report's contents, report writers often break content into chunks of related information. Headings and subheadings are often included before the section or topic to let the audience know the issue at hand. Headings and subheadings do attract attention because they are often formatted with a larger or color-coded font; however, the primary purpose is not to convey a hidden agenda, provide supporting evidence, or solicit an opinion from the audience. 
SOURCE: CO:088 Select and utilize appropriate formats for professional writing
SOURCE: Victoria University of Wellington. (2017, April). How to write a business report. Retrieved August 8,
2023, from https://www.victoria.ac.nz/vbs/teaching/resources/VBS-Report-Writing-Guide-2017.pdf 

28. Keoni’s phone keeps vibrating, which prevents him from listening closely. This is an example of 
A. an environmental distraction.
B. active listening.
C. an internal distraction.
D. paraphrasing.

28. A
An environmental distraction. Environmental distractions are aspects of the setting that divert the listener’s attention away from the speaker’s message. Common environmental distractions include noises from physical objects such as phones, TVs, computers, etc. Internal distractions are concerns, thoughts, or worries on the part of the listener that take away from their ability to attend to the speaker’s message. Paraphrasing is restating the speaker’s message using your own words. Active listening uses nonverbal cues, paraphrasing, questioning, and other techniques to let a speaker know that a message has been heard and understood. 
SOURCE: CO:017 Demonstrate active listening skills
SOURCE: LAP-CO-017—Listen Up! (Demonstrating Active Listening Skills)

71. Which of the following is the primary reason a speaker makes eye contact during a presentation: 
A. To distract the audience from the presentation
B. To establish a connection with the audience
C. To conclude the presentation
D. To give themselves time to set up visual aids

71. B
To establish a connection with the audience. Making eye contact with individuals in the audience helps to establish a connection and make them feel as if you’re talking directly to them. Making eye contact during a presentation does not give the speaker time to set up visual aids. A speaker summarizes their main points to conclude a presentation, which is unrelated to eye contact. A speaker would not want to distract the audience from the presentation. 
SOURCE: CO:025 Make oral presentations
SOURCE: LAP-CO-025—Well Said! (Making Oral Presentations)
2024 HS ICDC FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 18 

94. In which of the following situations would a conversational, informal tone and slang be most appropriate: 
A. Company-wide email
B. Report for a CEO
C. Industry publication
D. Social media post

94. D
Social media post. Knowing when and how to adapt written correspondence to different audiences is a critical business communication skill. A conversational, informal tone and slang would be most appropriate in a company’s social media post. A report for a CEO and an industry publication would require a formal, serious tone and potentially technical jargon—these audiences require a more professional communication style. A company-wide email would be less formal than the publication and report but would likely avoid slang. 
SOURCE: CO:203 Adapt written correspondence to targeted audiences
SOURCE: AIContentfy. (2023, November 6). The importance of writing for different audiences as a freelance
writer. Retrieved December 26, 2023, from https://aicontentfy.com/en/blog/importance-of-writing-fordifferent-audiences-as-freelance-writer 

51. When preparing for a speech, it's most important to 
A. practice.
B. design visual aids.
C. write note cards.
D. plan your appearance.

51. A
Practice. Although it can be tempting to skip this step, practicing your presentation is the most important part of preparation! You should rehearse your presentation from start to finish several times over a few days. This will help you become comfortable with the material and sound more natural. While it's still important to design visual aids, plan your appearance, and write note cards, none of those things will matter much if you aren't prepared for the speech itself. 
SOURCE: CO:025 Make oral presentations
SOURCE: LAP-CO-025—Well Said! (Making Oral Presentations)

66. The use of email may put a business at more risk than memos or letters stored as paper records because 
A. email communications contain confidential information.
B. email users may use slang or make embarrassing remarks.
C. email users may make careless spelling errors.
D. email communications are more difficult to secure.

66. D
Email communications are more difficult to secure. Email messages can be intercepted by unscrupulous people in a number of different ways, both physically (if either the sending or receiving device is stolen or lacking effective security features) and digitally (such as through hacking). Paper records, on the other hand, can be more easily protected using locked, fireproof cabinets and other physical storage. Poor spelling, slang, and inappropriate remarks can occur in any form of communication or documentation and should be avoided. Any business communication can contain confidential information, but the inability to effectively secure email puts any private information contained in email messages at risk. 
SOURCE: CO:202 Explain how digital communications (e.g., email, text messages, chats) exposes business to
risk 
SOURCE: Sutherland, R. (2021, March 19). Why you should choose a secure email provider for your business
(and why you might not). Retrieved September 28, 2023, from https://www.techradar.com/news/whychoose-secure-email-provider 

77. If you are writing a promotional email about your new hotel to an audience that has a lower income level than your usual customers, you might change your message to emphasize 
A. an emotional appeal.
B. long, detailed phrases.
C. luxury and comfort.
D. discounts and bargains.

77. D
Discounts and bargains. If the audience to whom you are writing has a lower income level than your usual audience, you might achieve success by focusing on a cost-saving message rather than one that emphasizes luxury or comfort. Using long, detailed sentences or an emotional appeal will not necessarily help you reach an audience in a lower income bracket. 
SOURCE: CO:203 Adapt written correspondence to targeted audiences
SOURCE: Ross, L. (2023). Intended audience - How to write for your target audience. Retrieved September 28,
2023, from https://www.growth-hackers.net/intended-audience-how-to-write-for-your-target-audience 

94. The average household spends 10% of its income on food, 27% on housing, 13% on transportation, 7% on health care, 3% on clothing, 2% on education, and 38% on miscellaneous other expenses. Which of the following graphic aids would be most appropriate for depicting this information: 
A. Line chart
B. Word cloud
C. Pie chart
D. Bar graph

94. C
Pie chart. Graphic aids can be quite useful in communicating data to others. The type of graphic aid to use, however, depends on the nature of those data. A pie chart is most appropriate when showing parts of a whole, such as the elements of a household budget. A bar graph, on the other hand, is most appropriate when comparing different items. Word clouds include text of different sizes, colors, etc., to indicate trends, patterns, or frequencies. Line charts can also be used to indicate trends or changes over time, but they typically present numerical data, not just text. 
SOURCE: CO:087 Select and use appropriate graphic aids
SOURCE: Infogram. (2023). How to choose the right chart for your data. Retrieved September 28, 2023,
from https://infogram.com/page/choose-the-right-chart-data-visualization 

39. Trent took notes in a meeting, but when he looked over them later, he realized that he was missing some important information. To determine what he failed to write down, Trent should 
A. use a consistent, logical note-taking format.
B. ask a coworker to help him fill in the blanks.
C. condense what he has written to be more concise.
D. tackle the tasks he was assigned at the meeting.

39. B
Ask a coworker to help him fill in the blanks. It can be difficult to capture everything important when taking notes. If Trent realizes that his meeting notes are incomplete, he should ask a coworker who was also in the meeting to help him fill in what he is missing. While it's a good idea to tackle assigned tasks after a meeting, this will not necessarily help Trent deal with the missing information in his notes. Using a consistent, logical notetaking format is an effective strategy, but it will not help Trent after the fact when he is missing important information. Condensing what he has written to be more concise will not help Trent fill in the missing information. 
SOURCE: CO:085 Utilize note-taking strategies
SOURCE: Slatta, R. (n.d.). Strategies for effective listening & notetaking. Retrieved August 2, 2023,
from https://faculty.chass.ncsu.edu/slatta/hi216/takenotes.htm 

42. What is one way someone can improve their active listening skills? 
A. Thinking about how to respond to the speaker's message
B. Concentrating on remembering what the speaker says
C. Paying more attention to the speaker's nonverbal cues than to their tone of voice
D. Controlling the conversation by monitoring their own nonverbal language

42. B
Concentrating on remembering what the speaker says. One technique people use to improve listening skills is to make a conscious effort to try to focus and remember what the speaker says. Staying focused on the message and filtering out noise as much as possible improves the chances of remembering and accurately understanding the message. Listeners may want to be aware of their own body language (e.g., facial expressions, crossed arms) because their nonverbal cues are also being interpreted by the speaker and can affect communication. However, monitoring one's own nonverbal cues does not necessarily mean that the listener takes control of the conversation. Thinking about how to respond to messages while the speaker is talking is a barrier to active listening. To decipher a message accurately, the listener must not only pay attention to the speaker's words but also to their nonverbal cues and voice tone. Nonverbal cues are not necessarily more important than tone of voice. 
SOURCE: CO:017 Demonstrate active listening skills
SOURCE: Hatter, K. (2021). How to improve active listening skills in business situations. Retrieved August 2,
2023, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/improve-active-listening-skills-business-situations20192.html 

63. "This is an exciting new opportunity for you," says Jane's boss. Which of the following nonverbal cues would appropriately reinforce that message: 
A. Smiling
B. Slouching
C. Looking out the window
D. Focusing eyes on the computer

63. A
Smiling. A smile conveys a positive message and reinforces good news. Poor posture sends the message that a person doesn't really care about what they are saying. Lack of eye contact, or looking elsewhere, sends a message that the speaker may not be telling the truth or may wish to be doing something else. 
SOURCE: CO:059 Interpret others' nonverbal cues
SOURCE: Boose, G., Robinson, L., Segal, J., & Smith, M. (2020, October). Nonverbal communication and body
language. Retrieved August 2, 2023, from https://www.helpguide.org/articles/relationshipscommunication/nonverbal-communication.htm 

64. You think you have the best solution for a problem, but your colleagues don't believe that your idea will work. What should you do? 
A. Accept defeat.
B. Reject feedback.
C. Remain patient.
D. Become defensive.

64. C
Remain patient. It may take some time and work to convince your coworkers that your idea is the best option, so it's important to remain patient. Becoming defensive and rejecting feedback will not help you be objective. Even though you don't want to become defensive, you also shouldn't go to the other extreme and accept defeat when people disagree with you. 
SOURCE: CO:061 Defend ideas objectively
SOURCE: Haddock, P. (2022). Defend your ideas without becoming defensive. Retrieved August 2, 2023,
from https://gohighbrow.com/defend-your-ideas-without-becoming-defensive/ 

86. Dirk is interested in working overtime to earn some extra money to put toward a new car. He can't find his department's policy regarding overtime work in the company's employee handbook. What should Dirk do? 
A. Ask the department manager about the policy
B. Look for the policy on the company's website
C. Send a memo to the human resources manager
D. Question an employee from another department

86. A
Ask the department manager about the policy. If employees are not sure if they can or should work overtime, they should ask their department managers. Generally, department managers can authorize overtime for their subordinates. Departmental policies are not usually posted on the company's website. Overtime policies often vary by department, so asking an employee who works in another department is not an appropriate action to take. If the department manager is unavailable, the employee might ask the human resources manager about overtime policies. 
SOURCE: CO:057 Analyze company resources to ascertain policies and procedures
SOURCE: Nichols, J. (2017, September 26). Labor laws on too much overtime. Retrieved August 2, 2023,
from https://bizfluent.com/how-2076457-create-overtime-policy.html 

30. Checking for typos, run-on sentences, and capitalization errors is part of the __________ process. 
A. fact-checking
B. editing
C. revising
D. thesis

30. B
Editing. The editing process involves checking for typos, run-on sentences, and capitalization errors. Editing is focused on sentence-level review. Revising is concerned with clarity, the amount and order of information, and whether your ideas are presented logically. Revision covers the content. Fact-checking should occur earlier in the writing process. Constructing a thesis comes after the research phase in the writing process. Neither involves checking for typos, run-on sentences, or capitalization errors. 
SOURCE: CO:089 Edit and revise written work consistent with professional standards
SOURCE: Excelsior Online Writing Lab. (2023, January 30). Revising & editing basics. Retrieved November 28,
2023, from https://owl.excelsior.edu/writing-process/writing-process-overview/writing-processrevising-and-editing/ 2024 HS ICDC HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 8 

52. Jamari needs to talk to a coworker down the hall about a sensitive topic and wants to be sure his tone is conveyed clearly. What would be the most appropriate communication channel? 
A. In-person conversation
B. Email
C. Instant messaging platform
D. Videoconference

52. A
In-person conversation. If Jamari plans to discuss a sensitive topic and wants to clearly convey his tone, he should have an in-person conversation with his coworker. Talking to someone in person allows for back-andforth conversation and lets you use nonverbal communication to enhance your message. Instant messaging and email communication allows room for misunderstanding of tone, which is important given Jamari will be discussing a sensitive topic. Videoconferencing would be useful if the coworker was not down the hall. 
SOURCE: CO:092 Choose and use appropriate channel for workplace communication
SOURCE: Birt, J. (2023, June 29). 7 essential channels of communication in the workplace. Retrieved
November 28, 2023, from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/channels-ofcommunication 

73. During a group discussion, you disagree with another person’s idea. How should you respond? 
A. Say, “That sounds great, let’s move forward with your decision.”
B. Say, “You’re wrong. You don’t know what you’re talking about.”
C. Say, “I can see where you’re coming from, but I don’t agree.”
D. Roll your eyes and slump down in your seat.

73. C
Say, “I can see where you’re coming from, but I don’t agree.” During a group discussion, it’s important to politely disagree. Validating the person’s point of view while sharing your opinion is a way to be respectful and communicate your thoughts. Telling someone they’re wrong and using accusatory “you” statements will likely escalate the situation. Rolling your eyes and slumping down in your seat is rude nonverbal communication. Signaling support for the person’s idea when you actually disagree is disingenuous. 
SOURCE: CO:053 Participate in group discussions
SOURCE: Indeed. (2022, August 10). 15 do’s and don’ts of group discussions. Retrieved November 28, 2023,
from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/dos-and-donts-of-group-discussion 2024 HS ICDC HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 18 

3. When preparing to deliver an oral presentation, the most important step is 
A. practicing the delivery.
B. writing useful note cards.
C. conducting research.
D. choosing the best visual aid.

3. A
Practicing the delivery. When preparing to deliver an oral presentation, practicing the delivery is most important because it uncovers any problems with timing, transitions, note cards, visual aids, and even language. Conducting research, writing useful note cards, and choosing the best visual aid are all important steps, but they do not affect other areas as much as practice does. 
SOURCE: CO:025 Make oral presentations
SOURCE: LAP-CO-025—Well Said! (Making Oral Presentations)

40. When writing a persuasive business message, you should remember to 
A. communicate your personal goals.
B. describe the benefits to the audience.
C. open the message with a meaningful quote.
D. place the least important information at the beginning.

40. B
Describe the benefits to the audience. The primary goal of a persuasive message is to influence behavior. Influencing others involves communicating benefits of taking action. The readers are more likely to respond favorably to the message if they know how the action will impact or help them. Communicating benefits is a central element to all types of persuasive messages. The beginning of the message should catch the readers' attention and encourage them to read more. Depending on the type of message, this might involve a quote. The message should be concise, so it should not contain unimportant information. The message should be written to communicate the business's goals rather than personal ones. 
SOURCE: CO:031 Write persuasive messages
SOURCE: Williams, E. (2018, October 19). Effective persuasive communication. Retrieved September 26,
2023, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/effective-persuasive-communication-56248.html 

67. What type of correspondence has Julia written when she sends several emails to companies requesting product information? 
A. A proposal
B. An inquiry
C. An application
D. A short report

67. B
An inquiry. Inquiries are written to ask for more information concerning a product or service. An application is a form requesting acceptance into an organization, group, or company. A short report gives brief details about a project, product, or service. A proposal suggests a course of action to be taken. 
SOURCE: CO:040 Write inquiries
SOURCE: Beare, K. (2019, May 26). The fundamentals of writing an inquiry business letter. Retrieved
September 26, 2023, from https://www.thoughtco.com/inquiry-letters-1210169 

70. When writing emails to customers and coworkers, it is important to remember that the messages 
A. are often seen by people other than the recipients.
B. should be written in an entertaining, informal way.
C. are usually deleted as soon as they are read.
D. should include graphics to hold the reader's interest.

70. A
Are often seen by people other than the recipients. When writing emails to customers and coworkers, the correspondence should address various business issues; therefore, writers should develop the messages using a concise, friendly, and businesslike tone. If the writer uses language that is very casual, personal, or questionable, there is a risk of offending the recipient or others to whom the recipient forwards the message. Because many businesses have email policies and can monitor the contents of emails going into and out of their companies, email writers should take care not to send inappropriate messages. Business emails do not need to be entertaining or informal, nor do they need to include graphics. Many businesspeople save important emails and flag them for follow-up at a later time. 
SOURCE: CO:090 Write professional emails
SOURCE: Griffin, D. (n.d.). Employee rights in regards to email. Retrieved September 26, 2023, from
https://smallbusiness.chron.com/employee-rights-regarding-email-phone-communication-15934.html HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 17 

22. During a manager's meeting, Jon says, "In relation to Marilee's previous remark, our department has a similar problem. Perhaps we should form an internal committee to address these issues." In this situation, Jon is contributing to a group discussion by 
A. helping the group summarize what's been said.
B. pointing out missing information.
C. building on someone else's comment.
D. establishing ground rules for the meeting.

22. C
Building on someone else's comment. Jon is building on Marilee's comment by stating that his department has a similar problem. He adds to Marilee's statement by suggesting that the company form an internal committee to look into the problems. Jon is not summarizing what has been said, nor is he pointing out missing information. Ground rules are established before the meeting gets underway. 
SOURCE: CO:053 Participate in group discussions
SOURCE: UNSW Sydney. (2022, March 28). Guide to discussion skills. Retrieved August 2, 2023, from
https://www.student.unsw.edu.au/discussion-skills 

29. A business that writes letters to customers to confirm their orders or requests should make sure that the letters contain 
A. exchange rates.
B. a map of all business locations.
C. all the necessary information.
D. product ratings and grades.

29. C
All the necessary information. When preparing written communication, one of the most important rules is to be thorough and provide all the necessary information because the receiver may not have the opportunity to ask questions in person. Letters confirming customer orders should answer the questions of who, what, when, and where by including specific information about ordered items, quantity, delivery address, etc. The letters should contain all the necessary information to verify that what the business intends to provide is exactly what the customers have requested. Whether product ratings and grades, exchange rates, and a map of all business locations are necessary information to include in a confirmation letter depends on the type of business and the customer's needs. 
SOURCE: CO:016 Explain the nature of effective written communications
SOURCE: Indeed. (2023, February 27). 12 templates to use when writing letters to clients (with tips). Retrieved
August 2, 2023, from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/letters-to-clients MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 8 

39. Which of the following is an example of a persuasive message that businesses write: 
A. Handwritten note
B. Email
C. Collection letter
D. Interoffice memo

39. C
Collection letter. A collection letter is a type of persuasive message that many businesses write to customers who are delinquent in making payments on their accounts. The purpose of the collection letter is to persuade customers to send payment or to contact the business to make some type of arrangement. Collection letters should not offend customers but should convince them to respond immediately. Many businesses write emails, handwritten notes, and interoffice memos, but these types of messages are not necessarily persuasive. 
SOURCE: CO:031 Write persuasive messages
SOURCE: Indeed. (2023). Letters of collection: Tips for small businesses (with template). Retrieved August 2,
2023, from https://www.indeed.com/hire/c/info/letters-of-collection MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 10 

54. Which of the following is an effective strategy to use before beginning to read: 
A. Consult a glossary.
B. Think about what you want to learn.
C. Take notes.
D. Summarize the information.

54. B
Think about what you want to learn. Before beginning to read, it is important to know what you are hoping to learn from reading the text and what you will hope to know after you complete your reading. This will help guide your reading and increase your comprehension. Taking notes is an active reading strategy that you should use while reading, rather than before. Consulting a glossary is a strategy that you can use while reading to increase your understanding of technical or challenging vocabulary. Finally, summarizing is a tactic that can help with comprehension and retention after you have finished reading. 
SOURCE: CO:055 Extract relevant information from written materials
SOURCE: Princeton University. (2023). Active reading strategies: Remember and analyze what you read.
Retrieved August 2, 2023, from https://mcgraw.princeton.edu/undergraduates/resources/resourcelibrary/active-reading-strategies 

61. Which of the following business resources provides information about a company's dress codes, vacation policies, and general rules for appropriate behavior: 
A. Productivity manual
B. Employee handbook
C. Customer newsletter
D. Personnel record

61. B
Employee handbook. Businesses often develop employee handbooks that provide information about their general policies and procedures. For example, a business might outline overtime and vacation policies, disciplinary and grievance procedures, pay schedules, dress codes, and behavioral expectations in its employee handbook. Employee handbooks are usually given to new employees when they first start their jobs. Productivity manuals, customer newsletters, and personnel records are not sources that workers use to obtain information about a company's general policies and procedures for employees. 
SOURCE: CO:057 Analyze company resources to ascertain policies and procedures
SOURCE: Clarke, V. (2019, September 25). How to write an employee handbook [Examples + tips]. Retrieved
August 2, 2023, from https://venngage.com/blog/employee-handbook-examples/ 

61. Which of the following is a potential work-related consequence of social media use: 
A. Workplace injuries
B. Loss of privacy
C. Ambush marketing
D. Burnout at work

61. B
Loss of privacy. Many employees prefer to keep their personal and professional lives separate. However, excessive use of social media can make that very difficult. Having a large social media presence can result in personal information being circulated in the workplace. Workplace injuries are unlikely to result from social media use since there are rarely physical consequences of social media use. Burnout, or exhaustion and stress caused by difficulties at one’s work, is usually caused by an increased workload or a dissatisfaction with one’s responsibilities. It is not typically directly caused by social media use. Ambush marketing is a promotional technique where a non-sponsoring business tries to associate with an event. It is not related to workplace consequences of social media use. 
SOURCE: CO:205 Describe the impact of a person's social media brand on the achievement of organizational
objectives 
SOURCE: Adams-Mott, A. (2018, October 22). The disadvantages of computers in the workplace. Retrieved
September 22, 2023, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/disadvantages-computers-workforce10004.html 

66. When facilitating a group discussion, you should focus on providing __________, rather than __________. 
A. printed materials; digital resources
B. food; beverages
C. specific directions; vague instructions
D. questions; answers

66. D
Questions; answers. The goal of facilitation is to help the group move forward, not to convey knowledge. The facilitator of a discussion should prepare questions for the group rather than simply provide information or answers. A discussion does not usually require specific questions; guidelines can be open-ended so that participants can feel comfortable sharing different ideas. Printed materials are not necessarily preferred over digital materials—both can function in a discussion setting. Food and beverages are not required for a discussion, and one is not necessarily better than the other. 
SOURCE: CO:201 Facilitate (lead) group discussions
SOURCE: Coaching for Leaders. (2023). 11 ways to facilitate great conversations. Retrieved September 22,
2023, from https://coachingforleaders.com/facilitate-great-conversations/ 

78. When writing, why is it important to consider your secondary audience in addition to your intended audience? 
A. Secondary audiences are more critical of grammatical errors.
B. Published work is more widely available due to modern technology.
C. Even the most harmless written works could cause geopolitical conflict.
D. Your secondary audience will be more familiar with your work.

78. B
Published work is more widely available due to modern technology. Your secondary audience are the readers who are not the target audience but may encounter your work indirectly. With the advent of modern technology such as the internet and social media, a written work can have a massive secondary audience due to the potential for widespread distribution. A secondary audience is unlikely to be more familiar with a work than that work’s intended audience. It is also unlikely that a written work will cause geopolitical conflict and, therefore, is not a reason writers should consider their secondary audience. Secondary audiences are not necessarily more—or less—critical of grammatical errors. 
SOURCE: CO:203 Adapt written correspondence to targeted audiences
SOURCE: SkillsYouNeed. (2023). Know your audience. Retrieved September 22, 2023, from
https://www.skillsyouneed.com/write/know-your-audience.html 

54. As an audience member, which of the following should you do to encourage a speaker during an oral presentation? 
A. Quietly discuss the speech with the person sitting next to you.
B. Keep a straight face to communicate that you are serious.
C. Refrain from asking questions.
D. Smile.

54. D
Smile. A smile shows the speaker that you support and encourage them. It is a good idea to ask questions when given the opportunity. It shows interest in the topic. A straight face is difficult for a speaker to interpret. It may mean a person is upset, daydreaming, or seriously listening. Talking to others during a presentation is rude to the speaker and may cause them to lose their train of thought. 
SOURCE: CO:082 Explain communication techniques that support and encourage a speaker
SOURCE: Robinson, L., Segal, J., & Smith, M. (2023, August 15). Effective communication. Retrieved
September 18, 2023, from https://www.helpguide.org/articles/relationships-communication/effectivecommunication.htm 

74. Which of the following is a characteristic of a persuasive sales message: 
A. Discredits the competition
B. Reminds customer of the product
C. Contains loaded language
D. Makes the product appealing

74. D
Makes the product appealing. Persuasive messages usually are intended to encourage someone to do something. In the case of a sales message, the goal usually is to persuade a customer to buy a product. To do this, the message should make the product appealing to the customer so the customer will understand the benefit of buying and want to buy. The sales message should persuade the customer to spend money. Persuasive sales messages are not intended to simply remind the customer of the product or discredit the competition. Persuasive messages should not use loaded language, which is often biased and stereotypical. 
SOURCE: CO:031 Write persuasive messages
SOURCE: Gerard, Y. (2022, June 22). How to write persuasive sales messages. Retrieved September 18,
2023, from https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/how-write-persuasive-sales-messages-yvonne-gerard 

75. To be reimbursed for business expenses, Luke must obtain and complete an expense-reimbursement form, attach the original transaction receipts to the completed form, and submit the documentation to his manager for approval. What is Luke doing? 
A. Evaluating company feedback
B. Assessing company guidelines
C. Following company procedures
D. Developing company policies

75. C
Following company procedures. Policies are the general rules to be followed by company personnel. For example, a business owner may develop a policy that states the company will reimburse employees for certain business-related expenses. A procedure is the step-by-step process that personnel follow in performing a specific task. In the example, Luke was following certain steps to obtain reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses that he incurred--obtaining and completing the appropriate form, attaching receipts, and submitting the documentation to his manager. In the example, Luke did not develop the policies, evaluate company feedback, or assess company guidelines. 
SOURCE: CO:057 Analyze company resources to ascertain policies and procedures
SOURCE: Bizmanualz, Inc. (n.d.). What's the difference between policies and procedures? Retrieved
September 18, 2023, from https://www.bizmanualz.com/writing-policies-and-procedures/whats-thedifference-between-policies-and-procedures.html 

87. Which of the following examples illustrates the use of the cause and effect method of formatting for structuring oral presentations: 
A. We will discuss the basic steps used in developing effective time management techniques, and the first step
is to prioritize all of your commitments. B. Monet and Cezanne were both impressionist artists; however, their painting techniques and use of color
differed greatly. C. The use of toxic chemicals in the environment can result in the extinction of many species of waterfowl.
D. The public supports increased spending on national security, and a survey reports that over 70% of the

87. C
The use of toxic chemicals in the environment can result in the extinction of many species of waterfowl. This example indicates that the extinction of waterfowl (the end result or effect) is caused by the use of toxic chemicals (the cause). The public supports increased spending on national security, and a survey reports that over 70% of the citizens fear future terrorist attacks--this is an example of the use of a generalization with an example method of presentation organization. Monet and Cezanne were both impressionist artists; however, their painting techniques and use of color varied greatly--this is an example of the compare and contrast method of presentation organization. An example of the enumeration method of presentation organization is as follows: We will discuss the basic steps used in developing effective time management techniques, and the first step is to prioritize all of your commitments. 
SOURCE: CO:025 Make oral presentations
SOURCE: Fulton, S. (2006-2023). How to use cause and effect in presentation storytelling. Retrieved
September 18, 2023, from https://ethos3.com/use-cause-effect-presentation-storytelling 

