23. "I'd like to have that in writing before I give you my money," best describes the __________ customer. 
A. slow/methodical
B. dishonest
C. disagreeable
D. suspicious

23. D
Suspicious. These customers want facts and proof before making the final buying decision. They tend to question everything you tell them. This skepticism may be the result of bad experiences with other businesses. Disagreeable customers are unpleasant and hard to help. Dishonest customers try to avoid paying part or all of the price for a good or service. Slow/Methodical customers require a lot of time to make buying decisions because of shyness or indecisiveness. 
SOURCE: CR:009 Handle difficult customers
SOURCE: LAP-CR-009—Making Mad Glad (Handling Difficult Customers)
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 6 

29. An irate business customer yells at you because of a billing error. In this situation, what should you do to demonstrate a customer service mindset? 
A. Call the person's supervisor to complain about the customer's attitude.
B. Get as upset as the customer.
C. Blame the billing department.
D. Make sure the mistake is corrected.

29. D
Make sure the mistake is corrected. The customer wants you to resolve the problem. To do this, you must find solutions and correct the mistake without getting as upset as the customer, being defensive, or placing blame. You must find out what happened so that you know what to do next. Calling the customer's supervisor is inappropriate. You should look at this problem as an opportunity to discover how you can improve your customer service skills. 
SOURCE: CR:004 Demonstrate a customer service mindset
SOURCE: LAP-CR-004—Set Your Mind to It (Customer Service Mindset)

31. A salesperson who frequently handles customer complaints should think of each complaint as an opportunity to 
A. get to know the customer.
B. satisfy the customer.
C. ask personal questions.
D. use feedback techniques.

31. B
Satisfy the customer. Salespeople should think of each complaint as an opportunity to satisfy the customer and increase sales. Customers will sometimes make additional purchases at the time of the complaint if they are satisfied with the way in which the complaint was handled. Salespeople should avoid asking personal questions. The purpose of effectively handling customer complaints is to satisfy customers rather than to get to know them. When customers complain, they are providing the salesperson with feedback. 
SOURCE: CR:010 Handle customer/client complaints
SOURCE: QuickBooks. (2022, May 31). 8 tips for turning customer complaints into opportunities. Retrieved
August 8, 2023, from https://quickbooks.intuit.com/ca/resources/running-a-business/customercomplaints-opportunities-tips/ 

32. The most positive words to use in selling are 
A. brand names.
B. customers' names.
C. technical terms.
D. credit terms.

32. B
Customers' names. Customers' names are very special and important to them. The salesperson who can use the customer's name in the presentation brings a personal and positive touch to the sale. Brand names are more important to some customers than to others. In most cases, technical terms tend to have a negative rather than a positive effect on customers. Not all customers or selling situations involve credit terms. 
SOURCE: CR:003 Explain the nature of positive customer relations
SOURCE: Tsernov, K. (2018, January 8). The power of using customer names. Retrieved August 8, 2023, from
https://www.qminder.com/blog/customer-service/using-customer-names/ BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 8 

46. Which of the following is an example of a post-sale touchpoint: 
A. The product itself
B. Publicity
C. Customer loyalty program
D. Advertising

46. C
Customer loyalty program. A customer loyalty program is an example of a post-sale touchpoint. It's one way for businesses to keep in touch with customers and build brand loyalty. The product itself is considered a duringthe-sale touchpoint. Advertising and publicity are generally considered presale touchpoints. 
SOURCE: CR:001 Identify company's brand promise
SOURCE: LAP-CR-001—Share the Promise (Identifying Brand Promise)

30. Kerry only buys shoes from one brand. This is an example of brand 
A. loyalty.
B. personality.
C. awareness.
D. promise.

30. A
Loyalty. Brand loyalty refers to customers’ level of commitment to buying the brand. Because Kerry only buys her shoes from one brand, she is demonstrating brand loyalty. Brand awareness is how familiar customers and potential customers are with a brand. Brand promise is the specific benefit that customers can expect from using a good/service and interacting with its company. Brand personality refers to the projection of a brand that encompasses its values and emotional connections with consumers. 
SOURCE: CR:001 Identify company's brand promise
SOURCE: LAP-CR-001—Share the Promise (Identifying Brand Promise)

47. Pablo, a sales associate at an electronics store, sees a confused-looking customer looking for a product. However, when Pablo approaches the customer to offer his assistance, the customer refuses his help. This is an example of a __________ customer. 
A. argumentative
B. complaining
C. leave-me-alone
D. impatient

47. C
Leave-me-alone. A leave-me-alone customer is a customer who prefers or pretends to prefer to be left alone to find what they want. Even if they are offered assistance or advice, leave-me-alone customers turn it away. Argumentative customers are customers who seem to disagree, question, or look for error in almost everything and everybody. Complaining customers are customers who believe everything is going wrong for them and everybody is either taking advantage of them or not really trying to help. Impatient customers are customers who feel they must be helped immediately, regardless of the circumstances. 
SOURCE: CR:009 Handle difficult customers
SOURCE: LAP-CR-009—Making Mad Glad (Handling Difficult Customers)
2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 11 

75. Which of the following statements about building positive customer relationships is true: 
A. Businesses should aim to simply meet customer expectations.
B. Businesses must be reactive to customer feedback.
C. Customer relations do not impact competition.
D. Positive customer relations encourage customer loyalty.

75. D
Positive customer relations encourage customer loyalty. Positive customer relations encourage repeat business and customer loyalty. When customers feel that a business has taken the time and effort to build relationships with them, they are much less likely to switch over to a competitor, even if the competitor lowers its prices. Over time, these long-term customers can spend a lot of money with the business, making its customer relations efforts pay off for years to come. Customer relations do impact competition. For example, if a customer has a poor relationship with a business, they may turn to a competing business. To build positive customer relations, businesses must be proactive. Reacting to questions, complaints, and problems as they occur is not enough. Businesses must stay ahead of these issues, striving to keep problems from happening in the first place, as well as striving to provide positive customer experiences with every interaction. Businesses should not settle for meeting customer expectations; rather, they should look to exceed them. 
SOURCE: CR:003 Explain the nature of positive customer relations
SOURCE: LAP-CR-003—Accentuate the Positive (Nature of Customer Relations)
2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 17 

79. If a company effectively implements a customer relationship management program, which of the following is a common result: 
A. Higher quality products at cheaper prices
B. Customers do more shopping outside business hours
C. Vendors offer competitive discounts on supplies
D. Employees performing their jobs more efficiently

79. D
Employees performing their jobs more efficiently. Customer relationship management (CRM) refers to the strategies, processes, technology, and people a business uses to build, maintain, and maximize the long-term value of customer relationships. There are several benefits of implementing a well-planned CRM program, including that it allows employees to perform their jobs more efficiently, an increase in word-of-mouth promotion, increased customer satisfaction and loyalty, and increased sales and profits. Higher quality products at cheaper prices, customers doing more shopping outside business hours, and vendors offering competitive discounts on supplies are not common results of a company effectively implementing a CRM program. 
SOURCE: CR:016 Discuss the nature of customer relationship management
SOURCE: LAP-CR-016—Know When to Hold 'Em (Nature of Customer Relationship Management)

5. Which type of customer can best be described as being shy, insecure, and sensitive? 
A. Domineering/Superior
B. Dishonest
C. Suspicious
D. Slow/Methodical

5. D
Slow/Methodical. These customers require a lot of time to make buying decisions because of shyness or indecisiveness. These customers tend to be silent, or they don't clearly convey their needs or wants. Domineering/Superior customers are overly confident customers who feel they know more and are better than the average person. Suspicious customers question everything and usually want proof before being convinced that something is true. Dishonest customers intentionally attempt to avoid paying part or all of the price for a good or service. 
SOURCE: CR:009 Handle difficult customers
SOURCE: LAP-CR-009—Making Mad Glad (Handling Difficult Customers)
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 2 

12. A company that wants to present an image of professionalism can help reinforce the image by requiring employees to 
A. park in designated areas.
B. dress and act professionally.
C. be friendly and helpful.
D. maintain accurate timesheets.

12. B
Dress and act professionally. When employees dress and act in a professional manner, it reflects back on the company and reinforces an image of professionalism. Professional behavior includes being friendly and helpful to customers and coworkers. Maintaining accurate timesheets and parking in designated areas are internal concerns that likely would not be noticed by customers. 
SOURCE: CR:002 Determine ways of reinforcing the company's image through employee performance
SOURCE: University of Massachusetts Global. (n.d.). Professionalism in the workplace: A guide for effective
workplace etiquette. Retrieved October 2, 2023, from https://www.umassglobal.edu/news-andevents/blog/professionalism-and-workplace-etiquette 

42. When Brian got a new job, he made sure he knew how to use the cash register, became familiar with all the products and prices, and kept his work station very organized. In which way did Brian demonstrate the customer service mindset? 
A. Following through
B. Being efficient
C. Following up
D. Being accurate

42. B
Being efficient. Being efficient demonstrates the customer service mindset. Specifically, this means knowing how to operate equipment and software, becoming familiar with all the products the business offers, and keeping workspaces organized for action. Being accurate is demonstrated through double-checking work for accuracy. Following through means always doing what you say you're going to do. Following up with customers suggests to customers that you care about their continued satisfaction. 
SOURCE: CR:004 Demonstrate a customer service mindset
SOURCE: LAP-CR-004—Set Your Mind to It (Customer Service Mindset)
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 10 

44. Which of the following is a common product-related complaint: 
A. Poor service
B. Reduced price
C. Pressure selling
D. Incorrect size

44. D
Incorrect size. Customers' complaints about products are the result of defective, damaged, or spoiled products; the wrong size or color; mispricing; or the failure to meet the customers' needs. Poor service and the use of pressure in selling cause complaints about the sales staff. Customers seldom complain about reduced prices. 
SOURCE: CR:010 Handle customer/client complaints
SOURCE: LAP-CR-010—Righting Wrongs (Handling Customer Complaints)

47. To interpret business policies to customers, salespeople must 
A. understand the business's policies.
B. feel good about the policies.
C. get permission from management.
D. help to set the business's policies.

47. A
Understand the business's policies. Salespeople must have a clear understanding of the business's policies to explain them to customers and to answer questions. Management is responsible for setting policies. Salespeople are expected to interpret and to implement policies, and they do not need permission to do so. The salesperson must follow the business's policy even if they disagree with it. 
SOURCE: CR:007 Interpret business policies to customers/clients
SOURCE: Frost, A. (2023, September 25). 26 habits of incredibly successful salespeople. Retrieved October 2,
2023, from https://blog.hubspot.com/sales/habits-to-become-a-more-effective-salesperson BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 11 

14. If a business sells its customer list to other organizations without obtaining its customers' consent, the business is likely to 
A. take legal action against the other organizations.
B. lose its customers' trust.
C. damage others' reputations.
D. offer deep discounts to gain back its customers' loyalty.

14. B
Lose its customers' trust. Customers typically do not like businesses to share their contact information with other organizations without their permission. When this occurs, customers become distrustful of the business and often go to competitors to obtain the products they need and want. As a result, the offending business may lose sales and profits and is likely to develop an unfavorable reputation. The customers may want to take legal action against the business that shared their personal information without obtaining permission. A business's response to customer defections may or may not involve offering discounts to gain back its customers' loyalty. 
SOURCE: CR:017 Explain the role of ethics in customer relationship management
SOURCE: LAP-CR-017—Trust Is a Must (Ethics in Customer Relationship Management)
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 4 

30. What should you do if a customer is being difficult or demanding? 
A. Ignore them, and focus on another customer.
B. Continue to treat them with courtesy and respect.
C. Promise to give the customer a significant discount.
D. Tell the customer that their attitude is inappropriate.

30. B
Continue to treat them with courtesy and respect. Even if a customer is difficult and demanding, they should still be treated well. You should never ignore a customer, and it's out of line to tell a customer that their attitude is inappropriate. You also shouldn't confront customers. Even if they're being rude, you still must treat them respectfully. Be careful about making promises to the customer that you might not be able to fulfill. Broken promises are poor customer relations, so avoid promising anything unless you're absolutely sure that your manager would approve. 
SOURCE: CR:003 Explain the nature of positive customer relations
SOURCE: LAP-CR-003—Accentuate the Positive (Nature of Customer Relations)

77. A salesperson should always get to know their customers and make them feel valued. In other words, a salesperson should __________ with customers. 
A. buy products
B. see eye-to-eye
C. go to special events
D. build rapport

77. D
Build rapport. To maintain good customer relationships, salespeople should build rapport with customers. Rapport is an amicable, close relationship between individuals. Salespeople do not have to buy products with customers or see eye-to-eye with them to maintain good customer relationships. While going to special events with customers can build rapport with them, it is not the only way to build rapport. 
SOURCE: CR:029 Develop rapport with customers
SOURCE: Marketing Donut. (2023). Building rapport with your customers. Retrieved October 16, 2023, from
https://www.marketingdonut.co.uk/customer-care/customer-service/building-rapport-with-yourcustomers 

33. An important aspect of using technology in customer relationship management involves 
A. providing customers with excessive product information.
B. updating customer information in the computer database.
C. posting customer information on the business's website.
D. allowing employees to have complete access to customer information.

33. B
Updating customer information in the computer database. Customer relationship management (CRM) is the combination of strategies, processes, and policies that a business uses to meet or exceed customer expectations and to provide customers with outstanding experiences at every touch point. An important aspect of CRM is ensuring that customer data are current. For example, if the customer notifies the business about a change of address and the business does not update its computer database to reflect the change, the business's promotional mailings and invoices will not reach the customer in a timely manner, if at all. In another situation, a business might have multiple database records for one customer. If the business sends multiple (excessive) copies of promotional materials (e.g., product catalog) to the customer based on the data in the database, the customer may become annoyed. Sending multiple copies of a single mailing to one customer is also a waste of the business's money. To maintain the customer's privacy, the business should not post customer information on its website, nor should it allow its employees to have complete access to a customer's confidential information. 
SOURCE: CR:018 Describe the use of technology in customer relationship management
SOURCE: Erin Murphy. (2015, November 16). Podcast 1- CRM technology changes. [Video]. Retrieved
September 20, 2023, from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J4JvMtupiWc BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 9 

70. An employee approaches a regular customer who appears to be looking for a specific item and says, "Good morning, Mr. Henderson, may I direct you to a particular product?" Is this the most appropriate way to deal with that customer? 
A. Yes, employees should always greet customers and call them by name.
B. No, employees are too busy to pay attention to only one customer.
C. Yes, employees should be well informed and able to help customers.
D. No, employees are not expected to have conversations with customers.

70. C
Yes, employees should be well informed and able to help customers. One good way to have a customer service mindset is to be well informed about all aspects of a business. Although it is good to call a customer by their name, if known, this is not always possible. Employees often have brief conversations with customers. They should pay attention to customers regardless of how busy they are. 
SOURCE: CR:004 Demonstrate a customer service mindset
SOURCE: Hudson, M. (2018, May 23). How product knowledge can increase sales. Retrieved September 20,
2023, from https://www.thebalancesmb.com/benefits-of-product-knowledge-2890302 

44. When a business is successful in carrying out its brand promise, it provides its customers with 
A. a variety of messages.
B. above-average product quality.
C. consistent experiences.
D. a single touchpoint.

44. C
Consistent experiences. A brand promise is a business's agreement (spoken or unspoken) with customers that it will consistently meet their expectations and deliver on its brand characteristics and values. All messages and touchpoints should reinforce the brand promise in a consistent way. Brand characteristics vary among businesses and products but may focus on product quality. Businesses use many touchpoints to communicate their brand promises—employees, website, advertising, public relations activities, etc. All of the touchpoints and messages form the customers' impressions of the business and influence their experiences with the business. 
SOURCE: CR:001 Identify company's brand promise
SOURCE: FrogDog. (2019, October 11). How to develop a brand promise. Retrieved August 11, 2023, from
http://frog-dog.com/how-to-develop-a-brand-promise/ 

2. Which of the following is a way in which companies can become customer-focused: 
A. Prioritizing customer feedback
B. Being reactive when communicating company changes
C. Preventing customers from going above and beyond
D. Avoiding personalized experiences

2. A
Prioritizing customer feedback. Companies that are customer-focused have established cultures that aim to meet all of their customers' needs and earn customer satisfaction. In addition, they aim to develop close relationships with their customer base and create a customer-focused strategy. Companies create customerfocused strategies by prioritizing customer feedback, delivering personalized experiences, and enabling employees to go above and beyond. In addition, customer-focused companies are proactive (not reactive) when communicating company changes. 
SOURCE: CR:008 Explain management's role in customer relations
SOURCE: Fontanella, C. (2023, July 20). How to build a customer-focused company, according to 10 people
who did. Retrieved January 11, 2024, from https://blog.hubspot.com/service/customer-focus 

23. How does brand promise affect employees? 
A. It gives them a common goal.
B. It creates their job descriptions.
C. It increases their bonuses.
D. It creates additional pressure on their jobs.

23. A
It gives them a common goal. Brand promise is important because it enables a company to give employees a common goal to work toward in their daily work activities. This goal shouldn't create additional pressures, however. Brand promise doesn't create job descriptions, and it won't necessarily increase employee bonuses. 
SOURCE: CR:001 Identify company's brand promise
SOURCE: LAP-CR-001—Share the Promise (Identifying Brand Promise)

1. A true statement about difficult customers is that they are 
A. usually female.
B. easy to spot.
C. of all ages.
D. frequently older.

1. C
Of all ages. Difficult customers come in all shapes and sizes. They are of all ages, all economic levels, and may be either male or female. They are difficult to distinguish from other customers except that they have problems that make it hard to work with them. 
SOURCE: CR:009 Handle difficult customers
SOURCE: LAP-CR-009—Making Mad Glad (Handling Difficult Customers)

12. The advantage to businesses that use mobile-application technology is that their salespeople can obtain and send customer information from their 
A. data banks.
B. smartphones.
C. fax machines.
D. autoresponders.

12. B
Smartphones. Smartphones are quickly becoming a critical business tool for customer relationship management. The devices not only include cellular telephone capabilities, but also a variety of computer applications, including internet access. Businesspeople can call customers from remote locations, check email, verify inventory levels, and place orders from smartphones. In many situations, smartphones reduce the need to carry laptops and tablet computers because many of the applications that salespeople need to conduct business are on these devices. Businesses can also send promotional messages to their customers' smartphones. Autoresponder applications provide email recipients the ability to send automatic messages back to the message sender (e.g., out-of-office announcements). Data banks and fax machines are not forms of mobile-application technology. 
SOURCE: CR:018 Describe the use of technology in customer relationship management
SOURCE: Kooser, A. (2019). Mobile technology for business. Retrieved August 8, 2023, from
https://smallbusiness.chron.com/mobile-technology-business-2187.html 

20. One way to show respect for foreign clients' cultural and social differences is to 
A. always speak in your native language.
B. embrace cultural stereotypes.
C. use slang and idioms frequently.
D. pronounce their names correctly.

20. D
Pronounce their names correctly. One way to show respect for foreign clients, their families, and their cultures is to learn to say their names properly. If you mispronounce a client's name, you might insult the person or hurt their feelings. If you can speak a client's native tongue, converse with that client in their language rather than always speaking in your own native language. Especially if your clients' knowledge of the English language is limited, you should avoid using slang and idioms—your clients may not understand what you really mean by such words and phrases. When communicating with clients of different cultures, do not base your actions on cultural stereotypes. 
SOURCE: CR:019 Adapt communication to the cultural and social differences among clients
SOURCE: Baker, C. (2022, June 3). Cross-cultural communication in the workplace. Retrieved August 8, 2023,
from https://leaders.com/articles/company-culture/cross-cultural-communication/ 

75. Kaleb is removing duplicate records from his company's customer-relationship-management system. Kaleb is conducting 
A. data cleansing.
B. environmental scanning.
C. technical analysis.
D. exploratory research.

75. A
Data cleansing. If the data contained in a business's customer-relationship-management (CRM) system is incorrect, out-of-date, duplicated, or unformatted, the value and effectiveness of the CRM system is potentially compromised. Therefore, it is in the business's best interest to cleanse the data in its system on a regular—or even continual—basis. The correction, removal, and/or formatting of questionable customer records is called data cleansing. Environmental scanning involves collecting information about the environment surrounding a business. Technical analysis involves using historical information from market activity, prices, and volume to evaluate securities and predict future price activity. Exploratory research is a form of marketing research used to collect information that will help the business define its issue, situation, or concern and decide which direction to go in to address it. 
SOURCE: CR:024 Use Customer Relationship Management (CRM) technology
SOURCE: Tableau. (2003-2023). Guide to data cleaning: Definition, benefits, components, and how to clean
your data. Retrieved August 7, 2023, from https://www.tableau.com/learn/articles/what-is-datacleaning 

90. When providing product information to clients, finance professionals should use 
A. financial acronyms.
B. simple explanations.
C. standard responses.
D. technical terms.

90. B
Simple explanations. When providing product information to clients, finance professionals should keep the clients' point of view in mind. Clients may not be familiar with finance industry jargon, technical terms, or acronyms. Therefore, finance professionals should use simple, clear language that clients understand. While standard responses are sometimes helpful to finance professionals, it is usually better to keep individual clients in mind when providing product information since different clients are likely to have different knowledge bases. 
SOURCE: CR:012 Explain the responsibilities of finance professionals in providing client services
SOURCE: AARP and the Financial Planning Association. (n.d.). A financial professional's guide to working with
older clients. Retrieved August 7, 2023, from https://assets.aarp.org/www.aarp.org_/articles/money/financial_planning/financial_professional.pdf FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 21 

50. Which of the following best describes customer relationship management (CRM) software: 
A. It looks to offer better customer service and avoid cross-selling products.
B. It helps businesses to prioritize repeat customers over new customers.
C. It is used to establish better relationships with top customers.
D. It aims to maximize the short-term value of customer relationships.

50. C
It is used to establish better relationships with top customers. Customer relationship management (CRM) refers to the strategies, processes, technology, and people a business uses to build, maintain, and maximize the longterm value of customer relationships. CRM software provides businesses with information about their customers and is used to establish better relationships with top customers. CRM software can help businesses increase revenues by retaining existing/repeat customers and discovering new ones, rather than prioritizing one over the other. CRM software looks to provide better customer service, help a sales staff close deals faster, and crosssell products more effectively. 
SOURCE: CR:024 Use Customer Relationship Management (CRM) technology
SOURCE: Fruhlinger, J., & Wailgum, T. (2018, August 13). What is CRM? Software for managing customer
data. Retrieved December 4, 2023, from https://www.cio.com/article/272365/customer-relationshipmanagement-crm-definition-and-solutions.html 

57. Which of the following is an example of a post-sale touchpoint: 
A. Customer satisfaction survey
B. Publicity
C. Word-of-mouth marketing
D. Product packaging

57. A
Customer satisfaction survey. A touchpoint is any interaction between a business and a customer or potential customer. Post-sale touchpoints give a business the opportunity to truly deliver on its brand promise. Common post-sale touchpoints include follow-up, shipping/delivery, warranties/rebates, and customer loyalty programs. Word-of-mouth marketing and publicity are touchpoints that occur before a customer does business with a company. A product’s packaging is a touchpoint that takes place while doing business with a company. 
SOURCE: CR:001 Identify company's brand promise
SOURCE: LAP-CR-001—Share the Promise (Identifying Brand Promise)

58. Checking the validity, reliability, and significance of data and using graphs, charts, and tables to display this data describes what step of interpreting data mining results? 
A. Choose and apply data mining techniques
B. Define goals and metrics
C. Analyze and visualize results
D. Explore and preprocess data

58. C
Analyze and visualize results. Data mining refers to the process of sorting through large raw data sets to identify patterns, relationships, and useful information. When interpreting data mining results, you should start by defining goals and metrics, followed by exploring and preprocessing data. The next step is to choose and apply data mining techniques. Then, once data mining techniques have been applied to your data, you will analyze and visualize your results. This is done by checking the validity, reliability, and significance of data, and by using graphs, charts, tables, or maps to display findings in a clear way. The final step of interpreting data mining results is to communicate and act on your results. 
SOURCE: CR:024 Use Customer Relationship Management (CRM) technology
SOURCE: LinkedIn. (2023). How do you interpret data mining results? Retrieved December 4, 2023, from
https://www.linkedin.com/advice/0/how-do-you-interpret-data-mining-results-skills-data-analysis 

64. Which of the following statements about responding to customer inquiries is true: 
A. Customers don't expect businesses to respond promptly.
B. Delaying and ignoring customer inquiries is standard practice.
C. Companies should respond within 24 hours of an inquiry.
D. Waiting to respond won't impact a company's bottom line.

64. C
Companies should respond within 24 hours of an inquiry. Timeliness is one of the most important aspects of responding to customer inquiries. Companies should aim to respond within 24 hours of an inquiry, or sooner if possible. Customers expect businesses to respond promptly and to offer reliable answers. Delaying and ignoring customer inquiries is not standard practice; rather, it can damage a business's reputation and credibility. Waiting to respond can also impact a company's bottom line, as delayed responses could send a customer to a competing business. 
SOURCE: CR:012 Explain the responsibilities of finance professionals in providing client services
SOURCE: LinkedIn. (2023). What are the best practices for responding to inquiries from customers or clients?
Retrieved December 4, 2023, from https://www.linkedin.com/advice/0/what-best-practicesresponding-inquiries 

6. What might an employee receive from a business for routinely helping customers with their problems and satisfying their needs? 
A. A compliment
B. A promotion
C. A thank-you
D. An expense account

6. B
A promotion. Employees who regularly demonstrate a customer service mindset often enjoy career advancement, such as promotions and raises, as a result. Promotions are one way for businesses to acknowledge and reward employees’ customer service skills. An expense account is a sum of money given to employees who need it for travel, entertaining clients, etc. Customers, rather than businesses, often thank or compliment employees who have been especially helpful. 
SOURCE: CR:004 Demonstrate a customer service mindset
SOURCE: LAP-CR-004—Set Your Mind to It (Customer Service Mindset)

13. Customer Relationship Management (CRM) processes should support the basic steps of the __________ cycle. 
A. business
B. accounting
C. customer life
D. customer complaint

13. C
Customer life. The basic steps of the customer life cycle involve attracting current customers, acquiring new customers, serving the customers, and retaining the customers. The accounting cycle begins when a sale is made and ends when the books are closed in accounting. Business cycles are the rise and fall in economic activity that businesses experience. Customer complaint cycle is a fictitious term. 
SOURCE: CR:024 Use Customer Relationship Management (CRM) technology
SOURCE: CRMsolution.com. (n.d.). CRM software strategy: Sample CRM objectives. Retrieved September 28,
2023, from http://www.crmsolution.com/crm-strategy.html FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 4 

24. When a company analyzes data from a customer relationship management system to discover patterns of behavior, what technique is it using? 
A. Data mining
B. Data collection
C. Customer service
D. Social networking

24. A
Data mining. Data mining involves analyzing the information in large databases to discover patterns or relationships and generate new information. Social networking is the use of websites to interact with other users with similar interests. Data collection is simply the process of collecting facts and figures and does not involve analysis. Customer service refers to activities that increase customer satisfaction. 
SOURCE: CR:024 Use Customer Relationship Management (CRM) technology
SOURCE: Twin, A. (2023, April 15). What is data mining? How it works, benefits, techniques, and examples.
Retrieved September 28, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/d/datamining.asp 

60. Customer trust can provide a business with 
A. a competitive advantage.
B. more effective advertising campaigns.
C. better credit terms.
D. discounts on raw materials.

60. A
A competitive advantage. Customer trust can provide a business with a competitive advantage. Studies have shown that businesses with high levels of customer trust are in a favorable position over their competitors in terms of sales and profit. Customer trust will not necessarily provide a business with discounts on raw materials, more effective advertising campaigns, or better credit terms. 
SOURCE: CR:017 Explain the role of ethics in customer relationship management
SOURCE: LAP-CR-017—Trust Is a Must (Ethics in Customer Relationship Management)
FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 15 

97. A financial advisor should try to 
A. demonstrate wealth in an overt, flashy way.
B. hide gaps in knowledge with confidence.
C. talk about products more than they listen.
D. explain the reasoning for any changes.

97. D
Explain the reasoning for any changes. While change is often inevitable, customers might be uncomfortable with shifts in products, services, or business models. It is important to explain the reasoning behind changes so clients are well-informed. Financial advisors should not talk about products more than they listen to clients because the clients' needs might not be addressed accurately. Financial advisors also should not hide gaps in knowledge with confidence. They should instead be honest about what their background and experiences are, admitting if they are not the right fit for the clients' needs. Finally, financial advisors should not demonstrate their wealth in an overt, flashy way because clients might not trust their integrity. 
SOURCE: CR:012 Explain the responsibilities of finance professionals in providing client services
SOURCE: Haas, L. (2021, July 23). How transparency in business ethics impacts your bottom line. Retrieved
September 28, 2023, from https://www.constantcontact.com/blog/transparency-in-business-ethics FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 24 

8. Successful brands use brand promises to connect with their customers on a(n) __________ level. 
A. rational
B. ethical
C. logical
D. emotional

8. D
Emotional. A brand promise is the specific benefit that customers can expect from using the good/service and interacting with the company. It connects to customers on an emotional level and gives meaning to the brand. Successful brands use brand promises to connect to their customers on a "gut" level. Customers are more likely to be loyal to brands that they feel share their values and beliefs. Some customers may feel connected to a brand due to its ethics, but brand promises do not always connect with customers on an ethical level as they do an emotional one. Customers might choose to purchase products and services from companies due to rational or logical reasons, but these are not usually connected to the business's brand promise. 
SOURCE: CR:001 Identify company's brand promise
SOURCE: LAP-CR-001—Share the Promise (Identifying Brand Promise)

19. The ABC corporation's privacy policy states that the company will maintain the confidentiality of its customers' information at all times. Which of the following would be a violation of that policy: 
A. Selling customer lists without the customers' consent to third parties
B. Collecting customer information with authorization to develop a customer profile
C. Implementing a frequent-buyers program for the business's customers
D. Allowing customers the ability to opt-out of the email updates that the business provides

19. A
Selling customer lists without the customers' consent to third parties. It is unethical for a business to sell its customers' information to third parties without the customers' permission because it is a breach of privacy. When privacy is breached, trust is broken, and customers may defect to the business's competitors. Implementing a frequent-buyers program, collecting information with authorization, and allowing customers to opt-out of email updates are ethical actions. 
SOURCE: CR:017 Explain the role of ethics in customer relationship management
SOURCE: Wordstream. (2023, March 30). Customer data privacy 101: 10 non-negotiable best practices to
protect your business. Retrieved August 3, 2023, from https://www.wordstream.com/blog/ws/2022/11/22/customer-data-privacy 

43. A passenger is upset with Petra, a flight attendant, because the plane has not taken off and they are worried about being late for an important meeting. Before responding, Petra takes a deep breath, listens to the passenger's complaint, and apologizes. Petra is 
A. diffusing the customer's anger.
B. solving the problem.
C. avoiding the conflict completely.
D. deferring to authority.

43. A
Diffusing the customer's anger. In the hospitality and tourism industry, it is important to know how to resolve conflicts with customers who are unhappy with the service. One of the first steps is diffusing anger because it is difficult to resolve conflict when one or more parties is angry. Petra is diffusing anger by remaining calm, listening, and expressing sympathy. In this example, Petra is not solving the problem, deferring to authority, or avoiding the conflict completely. 
SOURCE: CR:044 Resolve hospitality and tourism related conflicts for customers
SOURCE: Customer Traac. (2022). How to deal with angry customers and diffuse the situation. Retrieved
August 4, 2023, from https://customertraac.com/diffuse-angry-customers/ 

57. Under what circumstances might it be impossible to honor a customer's request? 
A. If the request is unrelated to the customer's health
B. If the request jeopardizes the safety of others
C. If the customer is new to the company
D. If the customer is impolite and demanding

57. B
If the request jeopardizes the safety of others. In general, businesses should try to honor all special needs and specific requests of customers. However, if the request jeopardizes the safety of others (e.g., leaving a security checkpoint unattended), it might be impossible to honor that request. Requests should be honored even if the customer is impolite and demanding. Businesses should honor requests that are unrelated to health. Finally, whether or not a customer is new to the company is unrelated to whether or not their request should be honored. 
SOURCE: CR:054 Accommodate special needs/specific requests of customers
SOURCE: University of Louisiana at Lafayette Office of Disability Services. (2019). Reasonable vs.
unreasonable accommodations. Retrieved August 4, 2023, from https://disability.louisiana.edu/content/faculty-information/reasonable-unreasonableaccommodations 

58. The importance of customer service in the hospitality and tourism industry has grown due to 
A. lower prices.
B. less frequent travel.
C. fewer consumer choices.
D. technology.

58. D
Technology. Many apps and websites allow customers to leave reviews and ratings about their experiences. Therefore, customer service has become even more important in hospitality and tourism. Businesses must provide top-notch service to make sure reviews are positive, which keeps business incoming. Lower prices, less frequent travel, and fewer consumer choices have not increased the importance of customer service in the hospitality and tourism industry. 
SOURCE: CR:043 Describe customer-service challenges in the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: ASK. (2022, September 7). CX challenges in hospitality and travel industries. Retrieved August 3,
2023, from https://www.astutesolutions.com/industry-insights/hospitality-industry HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 14 

61. You are a hotel event planner in charge of a business conference. One of your guest speakers calls you to explain they are running late and will miss the pre-conference dinner. Instead, they explain, they are going to get something fast to eat on the way to the hotel. However, they still plan to arrive in time for their scheduled presentation. Which of the following would be the best thing for you to do to assist the guest speaker: 
A. Ask the staff to keep their entrée warm so they can eat when they arrive.
B. Ask a valet to help them with parking and luggage when they arrive.
C. Cancel their presentation and let attendees know that the speaker cannot make it.
D. Arrange for a video conference call in case they are late for their presentation.

61. B
Ask a valet to help them with parking and luggage when they arrive. A guest speaker is an important part of a conference, so you should arrange to make their arrival as easy and stress-free as possible. They plan to eat something on the way to the hotel, so there's no need to keep their entrée warm. Cancelling their presentation or arranging for a video conference call would not be necessary because the speaker is planning to arrive on time for their speech. 
SOURCE: CR:053 Anticipate unspoken customer needs
SOURCE: Social Tables. (2017, November 22). Want to be a hotel event planner? Here's what you should
know first. Retrieved August 4, 2023, from https://www.socialtables.com/blog/event-planning/hotelevent-planner/ 

68. To recover disgruntled guests, businesses should reach out to customers 
A. after processing payment.
B. quickly.
C. electronically.
D. with financial compensation.

68. B
Quickly. Communication is crucial to recovering a customer who has had a negative experience, and the sooner a business can try to resolve an issue, the less likely a customer will have time to 'stew' on the experience. The medium through which a customer is contacted does not have a direct effect on the likelihood of recovery. Financial compensation might help with guest recovery, but it is not always needed and can be a costly decision. Payment processes should not be a factor in reaching out to try to recover guests. 
SOURCE: CR:045 Explain the nature of guest recovery
SOURCE: Beddow, B. (2019, February 5). The LEARN method of guest recovery. Retrieved August 4, 2023,
from https://bevsight.com/the-learn-method-of-guest-recovery/ 

85. The Elegance Pointe resort is twice as busy from March through August, so it often hires seasonal employees to help meet demand. What is one way for the resort to encourage its seasonal employees to provide highquality service? 
A. Enforce a strict termination policy for bad service
B. Expand full-time roles to take on more responsibility
C. Seek out recruiting opportunities such as college job fairs
D. Offer training and professional development

85. D
Offer training and professional development. Seasonal employees are usually either new or have not worked in several months, so their customer service skills might be out of practice. The Elegance Pointe resort should train these employees well, as well as offer professional development opportunities so employees can offer excellent service. Seeking out recruiting pools such as college job fairs and expanding full-time roles to take on more responsibility are good ways to handle peaks in demand, but they are not necessarily related to improving seasonal employees' customer service skills. Enforcing a strict termination policy for bad service will not necessarily encourage the employees to provide high-quality service; rather, it might create a culture of fear. 
SOURCE: CR:039 Maintain service standards during peaks in demand
SOURCE: RoomkeyPMS. (2016, October 4). Staffing strategies for peak and off-seasons. Retrieved August 4,
2023, from https://roomkeypms.com/blog/staffing-strategies-peak-off-seasons 

11. Which of the following is a way businesses in the hospitality and tourism industry can address changing customer expectations: 
A. Keeping up with the latest trends
B. Increasing prices
C. Decreasing inventory
D. Avoiding market research

11. A
Keeping up with the latest trends. Businesses in the hospitality and tourism industry can address changing customer expectations by keeping up with the latest developments and trends. Businesses that do this will have an easier time anticipating and meeting the changing expectations and needs of their customers. Conducting market research will help businesses address changing customer expectations. Increasing prices and decreasing inventory will not necessarily address changing customer expectations. 
SOURCE: CR:043 Describe customer-service challenges in the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: LinkedIn. (2023). What challenges do hospitality customer service managers face, and how can they
be addressed? Retrieved November 16, 2023, from https://www.linkedin.com/advice/3/whatchallenges-do-hospitality-customer 

31. “Taste the rainbow” is Skittles’s brand 
A. slogan.
B. touchpoint.
C. personality.
D. promise.

31. A
Slogan. A slogan is a memorable phrase used to advertise a product or brand. A brand promise is the specific benefit that customers can expect from using a good/service and interacting with its company. A touchpoint is any interaction between a business and a customer or potential customer. Every brand has its own unique brand personality. This personality is made up of the distinctive traits and characteristics that make the brand special and set it apart from the competition. 
SOURCE: CR:001 Identify company's brand promise
SOURCE: LAP-CR-001—Share the Promise (Identifying Brand Promise)

45. If a customer becomes angry, what can an employee do to resolve the conflict? 
A. Match their interactions to that of the customer
B. Avoid making eye contact with the customer
C. Interrupt the customer to correct them
D. Remain calm and listen closely to the customer

45. D
Remain calm and listen closely to the customer. If a customer becomes angry, employees should remain calm and listen closely to the customer. Employees should allow the customer to get what they need off their chest while remaining calm and demonstrating that the customer is heard. Employees should maintain eye contact with the customer and avoid interrupting them. Employees should not match their interactions to that of the customer, as that may make the customer angrier. Rather, employees should set the example for the customer by remaining level-headed. 
SOURCE: CR:044 Resolve hospitality and tourism related conflicts for customers
SOURCE: University of New Hampshire. (2021, July 9). Conflict resolution strategies for the hospitality industry.
Retrieved November 16, 2023, from https://www.nhsbdc.org/blog/2021/07/conflict-resolutionstrategies-hospitality-industry 

49. Which of the following is a way in which a business can anticipate its customers' needs: 
A. Avoiding asking for feedback
B. Knowing its customers
C. Being reactive
D. Making company success its priority

49. B
Knowing its customers. One of the best ways a business can anticipate its customers' needs is by knowing their customers. Collecting information about customers isn't enough; businesses need to establish active relationships with their customers by paying attention to their behavior, communicating with them, and being readily available to answer their questions. Businesses should be proactive, rather than reactive, when anticipating customers' needs. Businesses should make customer success their priority, rather than company success. Businesses should ask for feedback from customers, as it will help them to better anticipate their customers' needs. 
SOURCE: CR:053 Anticipate unspoken customer needs
SOURCE: Plaksij, Z. (2024, January 16). The game of chess: How to anticipate your customers' next move.
Retrieved November 8, 2023, from https://www.superoffice.com/blog/customer-needs 

53. Which of the following is a benefit for a company that effectively anticipates its customers' needs: 
A. Lower conversion rates
B. Better quality products
C. Higher workload for employees
D. Increased customer loyalty

53. D
Increased customer loyalty. A benefit for a company that effectively anticipates its customers' needs is increased customer loyalty (a customer's preference for a business). If a customer loves a certain brand, they will often go out of their way to buy it. Anticipating their needs is a great way to earn loyal customers. A higher workload for employees, lower conversion rates, and better quality products are not necessarily benefits or results of a company effectively anticipating its customers' needs. 
SOURCE: CR:053 Anticipate unspoken customer needs
SOURCE: Gani, F. (2023, September 13). The art of anticipating customer needs: Benefits and tips. Retrieved
November 8, 2023, from https://hiverhq.com/blog/anticipating-customer-needs 

64. Hotels can make accessibility a priority for guests with special needs by 
A. spacing out furniture appropriately.
B. avoiding the use of automatic doors.
C. constructing the same layout for every room.
D. including a step in the shower.

64. A
Spacing out furniture appropriately. Hotels can make accessibility a priority for guests with special needs by spacing out furniture appropriately. This allows guests in wheelchairs or visually impaired guests to move about their rooms freely. Automatic doors are essential for hotels, as they make it easier for guests to enter and exit the hotel without help. Hotels should include roll-in showers rather than showers with steps, as roll-in showers make it easier for guests in wheelchairs to get in and out of the shower. Hotels should not have the same layout for every room. Rather, they should have different types of rooms available, especially rooms that cater to guests with special needs. 
SOURCE: CR:054 Accommodate special needs/specific requests of customers
SOURCE: Lacalle, E. (2022, July 5). What is an accessible hotel room and what should it include? Retrieved
November 9, 2023, from https://www.mews.com/en/blog/accessible-hotel-rooms 2024 HS ICDC HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 16 

71. A restaurant experiences peaks in demand during the holiday season. What can the restaurant do to prepare for the peak season? 
A. Prioritize inflexibility
B. Prioritize speed over quality
C. Increase prices
D. Hire seasonal staff

71. D
Hire seasonal staff. To prepare for the peak season, the restaurant can hire seasonal staff. Doing so will allow the restaurant to handle the wave of customers, keep up with demand, maintain good customer service, and ensure quality. During peak times, businesses should prioritize flexibility. Increasing prices will not help the restaurant prepare for the peak season. While speed is important in the hospitality industry, companies should prioritize quality over speed, no matter the season. 
SOURCE: CR:039 Maintain service standards during peaks in demand
SOURCE: Morales, I. (2019, March 6). How to maintain excellent customer service during peak seasons.
Retrieved November 16, 2023, from https://www.globalcallforwarding.com/learn/how-to-maintainexcellent-customer-service-during-peak-seasons 

78. Why do waiters repeat orders back to customers? 
A. It prevents the wrong order from being placed.
B. It ensures the customer will order dessert.
C. It leads customers to change their orders.
D. It makes it more likely they will receive a large tip.

78. A
It prevents the wrong order from being placed. Waiters repeat orders back to customers to prevent the wrong order from being placed. Repeating orders back to customers shows that the waiter heard the customer correctly and that the right order is taken. Repeating orders back to customers does not lead customers to change their orders, ensure customers will order dessert, or make it more likely waiters will receive a large tip. 
SOURCE: CR:021 Process customer/guest orders
SOURCE: Changing Minds. (2002-2023). Repeat the order. Retrieved November 9, 2023, from
https://changingminds.org/techniques/tipping/bigger_tip/repeat_order.htm 2024 HS ICDC HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 19 

82. Which of the following statements about customer service in the hospitality and tourism industry is true: 
A. Technology makes customer service more challenging.
B. Companies should prioritize properly training employees.
C. Every customer has the same needs and expectations.
D. Companies should not allow customers to provide feedback.

82. B
Companies should prioritize properly training employees. It is important for companies in the hospitality and tourism industry to prioritize properly training employees. Employees should have the necessary skills and knowledge to provide excellent customer service. Technology improves customer service, as it can be used to streamline processes and can make it easier for customers to interact with a company. Companies should allow customers to provide feedback, as companies can use it to learn and improve. Every customer is different, so companies should not operate under the thought that all customers have the same needs and expectations. 
SOURCE: CR:049 Explain the nature of customer service in the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: Hotel Covington. (2023). 7 tips for providing exceptional customer service in the hospitality industry.
Retrieved November 16, 2023, from https://hotelcovington.com/press/7-tips-for-providingexceptional-customer-service-in-the-hospitality-industry 2024 HS ICDC HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 20 

17. One of the best ways to demonstrate exemplary customer service in the hospitality and tourism industry is to 
A. offer discounts.
B. be frugal.
C. waive late fees.
D. be proactive.

17. D
Be proactive. While businesses should do everything they can to resolve customer issues once they are received, it's also important to anticipate any issues to improve the customer experience. Anticipating these issues—or being proactive—helps prevent the customer from having a negative experience. While offering discounts or waiving late fees can be a nice touch, these actions don't take the place of strong customer service. Being frugal involves aiming to spend only a small amount of money when possible. Being smart with money is advantageous to businesses, but being frugal all of the time does not help businesses offer exemplary customer service. 
SOURCE: CR:049 Explain the nature of customer service in the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: Amaresan, S. (2021, June 15). How to implement proactive customer service (& why you should).
Retrieved September 26, 2023, from https://blog.hubspot.com/service/proactive-customer-service 

52. A company received a negative review on social media. How should the company respond to improve the customer's post-sales experience? 
A. Apologize and attempt to rectify the problem
B. Ask the customer to comment again explaining the problem in more detail
C. Ignore the negative comment so others aren't encouraged to follow suit
D. Reply with a witty comment to improve brand image

52. A
Apologize and attempt to rectify the problem. When a company receives a negative review on social media, it should use the platform to publicly acknowledge the customer. This gives the customer the attention and respect they are seeking, as well as demonstrating that the company cares about its customers. The company should not ignore the negative comment because this makes it appear that the customer's opinion does not matter. Replying with a witty comment will not necessarily improve brand image because the customer might feel insulted or belittled. While it is a good idea to gather more information about the problem, it might be wise for the company to do so privately rather than publicly in a comment. 
SOURCE: CR:028 Use digital media to enhance customer post-sales experience
SOURCE: Schiff, J.L. (2015, September 15). 7 ways social media can improve customer satisfaction. Retrieved
September 26, 2023, from https://www.cio.com/article/245133/7-ways-social-media-can-improvecustomer-satisfaction.html 

62. A frequent customer is early for their Tuesday appointment with your coworker Antonio. What should you do or say to the customer? 
A. Invite them to be seated in a waiting area.
B. Ignore them since they are familiar with the company.
C. Tell them that Antonio always runs late on Tuesdays.
D. Ask them what they think of Antonio's ability.

62. A
Invite them to be seated in a waiting area. It is important to be friendly and make all visitors feel welcome. Ignoring a visitor can make them feel unwelcome. Telling a customer that an associate always runs late or asking for opinions of their performance is unprofessional and may make the visitor feel uncomfortable. 
SOURCE: CR:052 Identify factors associated with positive customer experiences
SOURCE: Martin, M.J. (2017, September 26). How to greet clients at the office. Retrieved September 26, 2023,
from https://bizfluent.com/how-8684581-greet-clients-office.html HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 15 

63. What is a realistic example of a benefit that employees could expect for reinforcing their company's environmentally friendly image? 
A. Luncheon for employees who turn in reports on time
B. Bonus of $500 for finishing a project early
C. Airline ticket to the employee who recycles the most over one year
D. Extra day of vacation for riding a bike to work instead of driving

63. D
Extra day of vacation for riding a bike to work instead of driving. Biking reduces car pollution. When others see the company's employees riding their bikes, it reinforces the company's image as environmentally friendly. The company is encouraging this behavior by offering a reward. A bonus of $500 for finishing a project early may be important to employees and effective in motivating them to work efficiently, but it is not seen by others outside the organization so it doesn't reinforce the company's image. In addition, finishing early is not an activity that is perceived as environmentally friendly. Although recycling does reinforce the "green" image, there are two problems with this response. First, those outside the company aren't likely to see employees recycling, so it won't boost the company's image. Second, airplanes pollute the environment, so the award is not aligned with the company's green image. The luncheon may motivate employees to turn in reports in a timely manner, but nothing about this incentive or reward reinforces the company's environmentally friendly image. 
SOURCE: CR:002 Determine ways of reinforcing the company's image through employee performance
SOURCE: Inc.com. (n.d.). Employee reward and recognition systems. Retrieved September 26, 2023, from
https://www.inc.com/encyclopedia/employee-reward-and-recognition-systems.html 

66. After ordering a new phone case, Heather was so satisfied with her purchase that she decided to share her opinion by writing a positive review online. She also told several of her family members, friends, and colleagues about the case. This is most likely an example of the __________ moment of truth. 
A. second
B. first
C. ultimate
D. zero

66. C
Ultimate. Heather writing a positive review of the phone case and sharing the information with her family members, friends, and colleagues is an example of the ultimate moment of truth. The ultimate moment of truth is the final stage in shaping a meaningful experience for the customer. It is when the customer begins to share their experiences with others and thus creates more zero moments of truth (the first possible moment of contact between a brand or product and the customer). When a problem arises, the customer will go searching for a solution. The first moment of truth occurs when the potential customer first comes into contact with a specific product. It focuses on the impression they form when they see the product for the first time and learn more about it. The second moment of truth takes place when the customer truly experiences what the company is offering. It is the ongoing relationship with a product and the things customers can think, see, hear, touch, or smell about the product or brand over the lifetime of the relationship. 
SOURCE: CR:055 Deliver positive moments of truth
SOURCE: Interaction Design Foundation. (n.d.). The moment of truth: Build desirable relationships with users
and customers. Retrieved September 26, 2023, from https://www.interactiondesign.org/literature/article/the-moment-of-truth-build-desirable-relationships-with-users-andcustomers HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 16 

75. What do employees often obtain by solving customers' problems quickly and satisfactorily? 
A. Repeat business
B. Personal service
C. Individual priority
D. Pleasant experience

75. A
Repeat business. Employees who solve customers’ problems quickly and satisfactorily often are able to obtain repeat business from those customers. Customers who are treated well will likely return to the business in spite of the complaint because they know the employees will resolve whatever problems may arise. Customers, not employees, obtain individual priority, personal service, and a pleasant experience when employees quickly handle problems and complaints. 
SOURCE: CR:004 Demonstrate a customer service mindset
SOURCE: LAP-CR-004—Set Your Mind to It (Customer Service Mindset)
HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 18 

79. Which of the following is a good strategy for resolving a customer service issue: 
A. Keep the conversation in a public space
B. Agree with the customer's complaints
C. Allow the customer to express their feelings
D. Disagree with each negative statement

79. C
Allow the customer to express their feelings. Sometimes, frustrated customers want to complain and release anger. Allowing them to express their feelings might help them calm down and make a resolution more likely. Agreeing with a customer's complaints is not a good idea, because it undermines the authority of the company. Keeping the conversation in a public space is not a good idea, because other employees or customers might hear the conversation, which could damage morale and reputation. Finally, disagreeing with each negative statement is likely to upset the customer rather than help resolve the conflict. 
SOURCE: CR:046 Determine strategies for resolving customer-service situations
SOURCE: Cerdeira, C. (2022, December 22). 12 tips for conflict resolution to create excellent customer service.
Retrieved September 26, 2023, from https://www.talkdesk.com/blog/12-conflict-resolution-tips-forexcellent-customer-service/ HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 19 

82. The manager of the Majesty Resort just quit in the middle of summer vacation season. They told the owner they felt too overwhelmed by all of the work they had to do. The owner of the Majesty Resort should have 
A. increased staffing for peaks in demand.
B. closed down the resort during peaks in demand.
C. convinced the manager to stay.
D. hired a more responsible manager.

82. A
Increased staffing for peaks in demand. Employee turnover can become a problem during peaks in demand, when employees (such as the manager in this example) become overworked and stressed. This issue could have been avoided by increasing staffing to meet demand. Hiring a more responsible manager might not necessarily help, because there still might not be enough staff to handle the demands of the busiest seasons. Convincing the manager to stay would also not help with the excessive demand unless other staff members were hired to help as well. Closing down the resort during peaks in demand is not a good idea; the resort would lose revenue and would likely struggle to stay in business. 
SOURCE: CR:038 Identify strategies to manage customer experience during peaks in demand
SOURCE: RoomkeyPMS. (2016, October 4). Staffing strategies for peak and off-seasons. Retrieved September
26, 2023, from https://roomkeypms.com/blog/staffing-strategies-peak-off-seasons/ 

84. What is a likely result of accommodating a customer's special request? 
A. The customer will become even more demanding.
B. The company will be perceived as inadequate.
C. The customer will generate word-of-mouth influence.
D. Other customers will feel they are not being treated fairly.

84. C
The customer will generate word-of-mouth influence. When customers request special treatment, honoring their requests will create an exceptional experience for them. They will be much more likely to provide positive wordof-mouth feedback to other potential customers. It is not likely that other customers will feel that they are not being treated fairly, that the customer will become even more demanding, or that the company will be perceived as inadequate. 
SOURCE: CR:054 Accommodate special needs/specific requests of customers
SOURCE: O'Neill, T. (2019, September 24). What going "above and beyond" for the customer really means.
Retrieved September 26, 2023, from https://blog.fctgcareers.com/blog/what-going-above-andbeyond-for-the-customer-really-means 

52. Jason, an American, is conducting a business meeting in China. Before leaving for his trip, he does some research and learns that Asia is considered a “high-context” culture, meaning that speakers leave much of their message unspecified and instead rely on nonverbal cues and between-the-lines interpretation. This is important for Jason to know so that he can 
A. adapt his communication style to match the culture he is visiting.
B. look like a "know-it-all" during his meeting with his Chinese partners.
C. show his business partners the superiority of the American communication style
D. speak very clearly and explicitly to his Chinese business partners.

52. A
Adapt his communication style to match the culture he is visiting. It's important to show respect for the people you are visiting by adapting your communication style to match the culture you are in. By doing research and learning about the "high-context" culture of Asia, Jason will not be alarmed if his Chinese business partners do not speak as clearly and specifically as he would like. He can also tailor his own remarks to better suit the Chinese style of communicating, instead of the clear and explicit method of communicating that he is used to in America. This type of cultural preparation is not for the purpose of looking like a "know-it-all" or to show other people that one way of communicating is superior to another. 
SOURCE: CR:019 Adapt communication to the cultural and social differences among clients
SOURCE: Mecozzi, V. (2017, January 10). Communicating across cultures. Retrieved August 2, 2023, from
https://www.thnk.org/insights/communicating-across-cultures/ 

68. Spending a lot of time on customer complaints can cause a business to be 
A. less efficient.
B. unpopular.
C. very successful.
D. more profitable.

68. A
Less efficient. Spending a lot of time on customer complaints can cause a business to be less efficient, and therefore, less profitable. It’s important for businesses to set up systems to deal with customer complaints swiftly and effectively. The amount of time spent on complaints will not necessarily make a business either unpopular or more successful. 
SOURCE: CR:010 Handle customer/client complaints
SOURCE: LAP-CR-010—Righting Wrongs (Handling Customer Complaints)

41. Which of the following statements best describes the concept of customer relationship management (CRM) in business: 
A. Customizing a wide variety of goods and services that will encourage customers to continue buying from a
specific business B. Obtaining and applying information about a customer's preferences and needs in ways that will build an
ongoing buyer/seller relationship C. Using nonpersonal promotion to communicate product information to customers for the purpose of obtaining
repeat sales D. Acquiring and manipulating external data to appeal to new market segments and gain market share from

41. B
Obtaining and applying information about a customer's preferences and needs in ways that will build an ongoing buyer/seller relationship. Customer relationship management (CRM) is the strategies, processes, and policies used by businesses to build, maintain, and maximize the long-term value of customer relationships. To build a loyal relationship with a customer, a business must know a customer's needs, wants, and preferences and take steps to accommodate these needs, wants, and preferences on an ongoing, consistent basis. To maintain customer loyalty, a business must be able to effectively communicate with the customer in many ways--both personal and nonpersonal. Not all businesses can or want to customize their product mix; however, they can use technological applications to personalize the messages that they send to customers. Although a business might want to use CRM strategies to increase market share by appealing to new market segments, this does not always involve manipulating external data. 
SOURCE: CR:016 Discuss the nature of customer relationship management
SOURCE: Hargrave, M. (2023, July 31). What is CRM? Customer relationship management defined. Retrieved
September 18, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/c/customer_relation_management.asp 

76. What should employees do after interacting with each customer? 
A. Take a short rest break
B. Talk to the manager about the customer
C. Thank the customer for coming
D. Prepare a sales report

76. C
Thank the customer for coming. It is important to thank each customer for visiting or doing business with your company. Thanking customers makes them feel welcomed and appreciated, and they are more likely to work with your business in the future. Talking to a manager about the customer is likely unnecessary unless a question came up during your interaction with the customer. Preparing a sales report after interacting with each customer is inefficient and unnecessary. Sales reports are more likely to be prepared for an extended period of time such as a week, month, quarter, or year. Although rest breaks are important, it's not feasible to take a short break after every customer. 
SOURCE: CR:004 Demonstrate a customer service mindset
SOURCE: LAP-CR-004--Set Your Mind to It (Customer Service Mindset)
MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 18 

