3. Which of the following is a challenge that entrepreneurs often face: 
A. Tax breaks
B. Increased resources
C. Potential financial loss
D. Extra vacation time

3. C
Potential financial loss. Entrepreneurs face the possibility of uncertain income, irregular paychecks, and potential financial loss. Increased resources and tax breaks are opportunities for would-be business owners. Entrepreneurs do not usually have extra vacation time; instead, they may have to work long hours and give up vacation time. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: LAP-PD-066—Own Your Own (Career Opportunities in Entrepreneurship)

5. Workers should learn to be adaptable as they move through their careers because 
A. the marketplace tends to stabilize over time.
B. businesses hire employees who are set in their ways.
C. they show employers that they are satisfied with the status quo.
D. the business environment is always changing.

5. D
The business environment is always changing. Being adaptable means that you are able to accept and deal with changes as they occur. The marketplace is always changing, so businesses must be able to adapt to accommodate the markets' needs and wants. For the business to adapt to these changes, it must employ workers who are willing to adapt to change. Employees who can adapt to change are willing to learn new skills, take on additional responsibilities, and handle new challenges, which makes them desirable employees because they are not set in their ways or satisfied with maintaining the status quo. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: Herrity, J. (2023, February 27). 6 important workplace adaptability skills (with examples). Retrieved
August 31, 2023, from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/adaptabilityskills PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 2 

6. Many businesspeople are required to take continuing education classes to 
A. supplement their existing income.
B. maintain their professional certifications.
C. improve their standard of living.
D. demonstrate their emotional intelligence.

6. B
Maintain their professional certifications. Many professions—accounting, finance, medical, and education— require certification to work in their fields. Because these fields are always changing, workers are required to update their knowledge and skills to maintain their certifications. Continuing education often involves taking classes and attending seminars and workshops. Professionals are not required to take continuing education classes to improve their standard of living, demonstrate their emotional intelligence, or supplement their existing income. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: Parsons, L. (2022, August 23). Why is professional development important? Retrieved August 31,
2023, from https://professional.dce.harvard.edu/blog/why-is-professional-development-important/ 

10. Daniel works as a marketing strategist at a digital marketing agency, where he earns a yearly __________ in compensation for his work. 
A. interest
B. dividend
C. inheritance
D. salary

10. D
Salary. Salaries are money payments for labor. As a marketing strategist, Daniel receives money payments for his labor in the form of a yearly salary. A dividend is a sum of money paid to an investor or stockholder as earnings on an investment. An inheritance is money or other items of value that are passed from one person to another upon an individual's death. Interest is a money payment for the use of borrowed money. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: Scott, M.P. (2023, May 27). Income definition: Types, examples, and taxes. Retrieved August 29,
2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/i/income.asp PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 3 

16. Which of the following is a tax on employment: 
A. Excise tax
B. Payroll tax
C. Property tax
D. Sales tax

16. B
Payroll tax. A payroll tax is a tax on employment, paid by both employers and employees. In the U.S., payroll taxes become trust funds for Social Security and Medicare. Excise taxes are taxes on products such as gasoline and alcohol; they are built into the product’s overall price. Property tax is a tax on property an individual or business owns, usually real estate. Sales tax is a tax on retail purchases. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: LAP-EC-072—Pay Your Share (Business Taxes)

17. What do people usually take into consideration when identifying occupations that they want to pursue in life? 
A. Natural talent
B. Social attitude
C. Mental health
D. Personal conduct

17. A
Natural talent. Aptitudes are natural talents or abilities for learning specific skills. People usually consider their natural talents when identifying occupations, because their abilities are an indication of what type of work they will be able to do the best and enjoy the most. For example, a person with good hand skills who has the ability to attractively combine colors and materials might consider a career in design or visual merchandising. Mental health is a person's soundness of mind. Personal conduct is the way a person behaves. Social attitude is a person's point of view about society. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: Weedmark, D. (2022, January 25). How to find a job using your talents. Retrieved August 31, 2023,
from https://work.chron.com/job-using-talents-13361.html 

18. Kit isn't sure whether she wants to become a nurse or a teacher. What kind of information could she find in career-information guides to help her make a decision? 
A. Her own aptitude for nursing and teaching
B. Networking opportunities with nurses and teachers
C. The expected salaries of nurses and teachers
D. A firsthand account from a nurse and a teacher

18. C
The expected salaries of nurses and teachers. Career-information guides include specific information and statistics about jobs, including training required, working conditions, earnings, and prospects. However, a career-information guide would not necessarily include a firsthand account from a nurse or a teacher; Kit could set up a meeting to gain that information. A career-information guide would not include Kit's own aptitudes; she would need to take an aptitude test for that. Finally, a career guide would not necessarily include opportunities for networking. Kit would need to seek out those opportunities on her own. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: Getting a job: Sources of career information. (n.d.). Retrieved August 30, 2023, from
http://jobs.stateuniversity.com/pages/56/Getting-Job-SOURCES-CAREER-INFORMATION.html 

22. What type of skills often makes it easier for employees to move up the career ladder? 
A. Intangible
B. Transferable
C. Compatible
D. Negotiable

22. B
Transferable. Transferable skills are those that can be used in more than one job. Employees who have transferable skills are often able to move up the career ladder because they have the skills necessary to handle different jobs. For example, employees who have good communication skills or management skills may be promoted because those skills are important in higher levels in a business. Also, they need less training to do their jobs because they already possess these skills. Compatible, intangible, and negotiable are not types of skills. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: Herrity, J. (2023, March 1). Transferable skills: 10 skills that work across industries. Retrieved
August 31, 2023, from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/resumes-cover-letters/transferableskills 

24. Employees who want to enhance their careers and progress through the management ranks should develop their 
A. job expectations.
B. leadership skills.
C. artistic abilities.
D. social contacts.

24. B
Leadership skills. Leadership is the ability to guide or direct the actions of others in a desired manner. Employees who want to progress through the ranks of management should develop their leadership skills because they will be expected to supervise and lead their subordinates. Employees who demonstrate good leadership skills often are given more responsibility and authority over others. Employees who want to enhance their careers often develop their professional contacts rather than their social contacts. Job expectations are what employees hope to accomplish or achieve in their careers. Employees do not need to develop their artistic abilities in order to progress through the management ranks. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: Indeed. (2023, July 3). Leadership in the workplace: 10 skills to develop (with FAQ). Retrieved
August 31, 2023, from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/resumes-cover-letters/leadershipskills 

28. When considering employment opportunities, it is important to remember that each career option varies in terms of earning potential, skills, and __________ requirements. 
A. gender
B. health
C. educational
D. intensity

28. C
Educational. Some positions require a person to obtain more education and training than others. For example, in some countries, a person must go to a four-year college and then to law school to become a lawyer. Other positions require extensive technical or vocational training. In general, gender, intensity, and health requirements are not primary factors when considering different factors that affect career options and selection. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: Doyle, A. (2021, July 21). Education levels and requirements for employment. Retrieved August 30,
2023, from https://www.thebalancecareers.com/educational-requirements-for-employment-2059799 

33. Gabriella is writing a professional report about the trends occurring in a specific industry. What source would provide Gabriella with the most relevant, up-to-date information? 
A. Online message boards
B. Archived government periodicals
C. Mailing lists
D. Trade publications

33. D
Trade publications. Trade publications are reliable sources of information for various professions (e.g., human resources) and industries (e.g., restaurant). Many professions and industries publish magazines and periodicals on a weekly or quarterly basis. Online articles are often available on a trade or professional organization's website. Online message boards and mailing lists may not provide the most relevant, accurate, or up-to-date information. Government periodicals may provide relevant information; however, archived information is usually older rather than up-to-date. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: OpenPR. (n.d.). Trade publication definition. Retrieved August 29, 2023, from
https://www.openpr.com/wiki/trade-publication-definition 

40. An individual with a higher income who pays a larger percentage of their income as taxes than an individual with a lower income is in a __________ tax system. 
A. regressive
B. flat
C. progressive
D. proportional

40. C
Progressive. In a progressive income tax system, those who have a higher income pay a larger percentage of their income to the government. In a regressive tax system, those who have a higher income pay a comparatively smaller percentage of their income as tax than those who have a smaller income. In a proportional tax system, all individuals of all incomes pay the same proportion of their incomes to the government. In a flat tax system, all individuals pay the same amount to the government regardless of their income. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: LAP-EC-072—Pay Your Share (Business Taxes)
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 10 

44. Employees should seek positions that 
A. capitalize on their weaknesses.
B. minimize their strengths.
C. capitalize on their strengths.
D. minimize their experience.

44. C
Capitalize on their strengths. Employees should seek positions that capitalize on their strengths and minimize their weaknesses. This makes them more efficient, satisfied, and successful and makes their employers and coworkers happy as well. Employees should never minimize their strengths or experience. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: LAP-EI-902—Assess for Success (Assessing Personal Strengths and Weaknesses)

45. Over lunch, Louise tells her new friend that she loves to write. Over the past 20 years, she has been a newspaper reporter, written a magazine column, taught writing at a local college, volunteered as a writing tutor at an elementary school, studied journalism in New York, and even had a novel published. Louise is describing her 
A. occupation.
B. work environment.
C. job.
D. career.

45. D
Career. A career describes a lifetime work history or long-term participation in a particular field of expertise. Louise has had a career in writing. A job is one specific paid position with tasks set by an employer, such as writing an advice column for a newspaper. Though Louise has held many jobs over her life, she is discussing a pattern of jobs and experience that have formed her career. An occupation is a group of related tasks that requires special training, education, or experience to learn a specific set of skills. Louise's occupation is writer, but the things she describes combine to form her career. If Louise were discussing her work environment, she would be discussing the surroundings and conditions of her workplace, such as a small home office. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: Indeed. (2023, July 31). What's the difference between a job and a career? Retrieved August 31,
2023, from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/finding-a-job/difference-between-a-job-and-acareer PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 11 

48. Which of the following is an example of a transfer payment: 
A. A federal grant to attend college
B. A tax break for small business owners
C. Dividends paid to stockholders
D. Payments made on a car loan

48. A
A federal grant to attend college. A transfer payment is a one-way payment with no exchange of goods or services. It generally flows from the government to individuals. When the federal government gives grants to students to attend college, nothing is needed in return; therefore, this is a transfer payment. Tax breaks, dividends, and loan payments are not examples of transfer payments. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: Segal, T. (2021, September 15). Transfer payment: Definition, types of transfers, and examples.
Retrieved August 29, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/t/transferpayment.asp 

54. Which of the following is a true statement regarding an employer’s tax obligations: 
A. Employers pay a matching amount of employees' Social Security and Medicare taxes.
B. Employers pay the same amount in taxes for each employee.
C. Employers may "opt out" of paying payroll taxes.
D. Employers pay taxes only for full-time employees.

54. A
Employers pay a matching amount of employees’ Social Security and Medicare taxes. Employment taxes, called payroll taxes, require employers and employees to pay matching amounts into Social Security and Medicare trust funds. This tax is required; employers may not “opt out.” Employers must pay taxes on every employee who makes a certain amount each year—not necessarily full-time employees only. The payroll tax is calculated as a percentage of each employee’s wages. Since different employees earn different amounts, the amounts that are owed will vary. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: LAP-EC-072—Pay Your Share (Business Taxes)

61. An employer might promote an employee who has seniority because the employee 
A. has a proven record of accomplishments.
B. works with other people on a regular basis.
C. expresses an interest in technology.
D. completes certain projects ahead of schedule.

61. A
Has a proven record of accomplishments. Seniority is the length of time an employee has worked for an employer. An employee with more seniority has worked for the company for a longer period of time than an employee with less seniority. Because an employee with seniority has worked for a longer period of time, they have established a reputation and have a proven record of work-related accomplishments. The company decides which accomplishments are factors to consider when promoting employees. Accomplishments might include the ability to reach or exceed goals, the ability to consistently complete tasks on or ahead of time, the willingness to cooperate and work well with others, and the desire to develop technological skills. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: AccountLearning. (2023). Basis of promotion—Merit vs seniority: Sound promotion
policy. Retrieved August 31, 2023, from https://accountlearning.com/basis-of-promotion-merit-vsseniority-sound-promotion-policy/ 

62. What is the primary reason many start-up businesses fail? 
A. Owners do not stay current with technology and professional development.
B. Owners require employees to take aptitude tests when they are hired.
C. Owners tend to hire employees who have good references.
D. Owners do not have access to resources for professional development.

62. A
Owners do not stay current with technology and professional development. Entrepreneurs who do not keep up with trends, technology, and development opportunities in their industry run the risk of falling behind their competitors. As a result, the competitors who keep up with the latest developments might be able to provide goods and services that others are unable to provide because of the lack of training and/or knowledge. Employee performance does impact the success of a business; however, employee references do not necessarily determine the ability and attitude of a staff member in relation to job performance. There are many resources available from which business owners can obtain information and professional development. Much of this information can be found on the Internet. Requiring employees to take aptitude tests does not contribute to business failure. To determine if an individual is qualified to perform a job, the employer must know the employee's abilities. For example, a person who wants to be an administrative assistant might need to type proficiently on a keyboard. Therefore, the employer might administer a typing test to determine the speed and accuracy of the individual's typing abilities. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: LAP-PD-066—Own Your Own (Career Opportunities in Entrepreneurship)
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 15 

64. Which of the following is an example of a payroll deduction: 
A. Overtime hours
B. Health insurance
C. Net pay
D. Pay rate

64. B
Health insurance. Payroll deductions are monies that an employer withholds from an employee's gross earnings. A large portion of the deductions is the various income taxes, which the employer pays to the government on behalf of the employee. Other deductions might include health insurance premiums, voluntary savings, and child-support payments. Net pay is the amount the employee receives in their paycheck after the deductions have been subtracted from the gross earnings. Gross earnings are income before deductions. Overtime hours are the number of hours an employee works over their regular schedule. Pay rate is the amount of pay a worker earns at a set interval (e.g., an hour). 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: Heathfield, S. (2020, April 6). Everything you need to know about payroll deductions. Retrieved
August 30, 2023, from https://www.liveabout.com/payroll-deductions-1918223 

73. Entry-level positions provide employees with 
A. basic job experience.
B. few advancement opportunities.
C. high salaries.
D. limited training.

73. A
Basic job experience. Entry-level jobs provide a starting point for an individual interested in pursuing a particular career. Many fields are very competitive, and by taking an entry-level job, a worker can gain valuable experience and training. An employee who performs well in the entry-level position could advance to many other positions within the company. Most entry-level jobs do not pay high salaries. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: Heathfield, S.M. (2021, February 24). An entry-level job: A foot in the door. Retrieved August 31,
2023, from https://www.thebalancemoney.com/what-is-an-entry-level-job-1918126 

82. An employee's net pay is the difference between their __________ and __________. 
A. take-home pay; garnishments
B. garnishments; gross pay
C. gross pay; deductions
D. deductions; take-home pay

82. C
Gross pay; deductions. To calculate an employee's net (or take-home) pay, you subtract deductions (such as tax or health insurance premiums) from the employee's gross pay (their total amount of earned income before deductions). Therefore, an employee's net pay is the difference between their gross pay and deductions. Garnishments are mandatory deductions withheld to pay off some debt. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: Blakely-Gray, R. (2023, January 3). How to calculate net pay for payroll. Retrieved August 30,
2023, from https://www.patriotsoftware.com/blog/payroll/how-to-calculate-net-pay-from-gross-pay/ 

83. Why do many employees continue their training or education after obtaining their first jobs? 
A. To obtain basic job information
B. To impress friends and coworkers
C. To change occupations frequently
D. To move up the career ladder

83. D
To move up the career ladder. Employees who continue their training and education often are rewarded with promotions and increased job responsibilities that enable them to move up the career ladder. Many businesses pay the tuition for employees who continue their education because trained workers are a valuable asset to businesses. The benefit to the employees for continuing to learn is career advancement, higher salaries, and job security. Most people focus on a particular occupation and do not change frequently. Employees do not continue their training in order to impress friends and coworkers. Businesses expect people to have basic job information before being hired. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: Rios, L. (2023, July 26). 7 benefits of continuing education throughout your career. Retrieved
August 31, 2023, from https://www.constantcontact.com/blog/benefits-of-continuing-educationthroughout-yourcareer/#:~:text=Continuing%20education%20can%20help%20you,of%20climbing%20— the%20career%20ladder PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 20 

84. Knowing your strengths and weaknesses can help you 
A. perform better in your current job.
B. receive a raise each year.
C. make the right decision every time.
D. obtain any job you want.

84. A
Perform better in your current job. Knowing your strengths and weaknesses gives you the ability to apply your talents where they are best used, which can in turn help you perform better in your current job. Knowing your strengths and weaknesses will not necessarily help you make the right decision every time, obtain any job you want, or receive a raise each year. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: LAP-EI-902—Assess for Success (Assessing Personal Strengths and Weaknesses)

86. Which of the following is the most likely action that the government will take when a person misses the deadline for filing their income tax return: 
A. Refund
B. Extension
C. Allowance
D. Penalty

86. D
Penalty. A penalty is a punishment. The government depends on income tax to support public programs. When people do not provide income tax information when it is needed, the government often imposes a penalty, usually a fine or fee. Ongoing failure to report income can result in imprisonment. The government does not offer a refund or allowance for missing an important deadline. However, a person can file for an extension to avoid being penalized for missing a filing deadline. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: IRS. (2023, August 30). Failure to file penalty. Retrieved August 30, 2023, from
https://www.irs.gov/payments/failure-to-file-penalty 

87. Home-based businesses are attractive to many people because the businesses generally 
A. require less technical training.
B. provide owners a steady income.
C. yield higher profit margins.
D. have lower startup costs.

87. D
Have lower startup costs. The initial cost of business startups depends on a number of variables. One factor that influences startup expense is work space. Because a home-based business is run from the business owner's residential dwelling, it lowers the cost by not having to rent space or build a facility. Entrepreneurial ventures do not guarantee steady income or higher profit margins. The degree of professional training depends on the type of business the entrepreneur is running. Therefore, it cannot be assumed that most home-based business owners require less technical training. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: LAP-PD-066—Own Your Own (Career Opportunities in Entrepreneurship)

12. The federal government places a new tax on alcohol and tobacco products within its borders. The function of this tax is to 
A. control imports.
B. limit business profits.
C. regulate business activity.
D. reduce liability.

12. C
Regulate business activity. Governments tax certain products, such as alcohol and tobacco, to discourage consumers from buying them. These taxes have an impact on the businesses that produce and sell these products. Although business profit is taxed, the function of the tax is not to limit profit. Taxes do not reduce liability. Since these alcohol and tobacco products are within the country, they are not imports. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-EC-072—Pay Your Share (Business Taxes)
2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 4 

20. If a business owns the building in which it operates, it must pay __________ to the government. 
A. fines
B. rental fees
C. property taxes
D. tariffs

20. C
Property taxes. Businesses that own buildings and land must pay property taxes to the government at specific intervals. The property-tax amount is based on the value of the land and building. Since the business owns the building, it would not have to pay rent. Tariffs are taxes on imported goods and not related to property ownership. Fines are monetary penalties that businesses must pay. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-EC-072—Pay Your Share (Business Taxes)

21. Anita has just started her own small business. Any profits she earns will be subject to __________ taxes. 
A. sales
B. income
C. excise
D. payroll

21. B
Income. Income taxes are a portion of an individual's or business's earnings owed to the government. Any business profits will be taxed by income taxes. A payroll tax is a tax on employment, paid by both employers and employees. Sales tax is a tax on retail purchases. Excise taxes are taxes on products such as gasoline and alcohol; they are built into the product’s overall price. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-EC-072—Pay Your Share (Business Taxes)
2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 6 

26. Michael has just retired from his longtime job. His company has provided him a retirement fund that has been paid into for the duration of his career. This fund is paid for completely by his company and is paid out at a fixed monthly rate. Michael has received a 
A. private checking account.
B. pension.
C. 401(k).
D. college savings account.

26. B
Pension. A pension is a retirement fund that has been paid into by an employer. Pensions offer a fixed monthly payment upon retirement. A 401(k) is paid into by both the employee and employer, and is less stable than a pension. A college savings account, which is an investment vehicle used to save funds for college, is not a source of retirement income. A private checking account is typically not provided by a company and is not a source of retirement income. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: FINRA. (2024). Sources of retirement income. Retrieved February 6, 2024, from
https://www.finra.org/investors/learn-to-invest/types-investments/retirement/managing-retirementincome/sources-retirement-income 

32. Business and worker production is likely to decrease during an economic 
A. upturn.
B. peak.
C. recession.
D. expansion.

32. C
Recession. A recession is a periodic economic contraction during which trade and economic activity are reduced, usually identified by a fall in GDP for at least two successive quarters. Expansions are periods of time in the business cycle when production and employment increase, leading to a peak, which is the top of the business cycle. An economic upturn would involve increased production, not decreased. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-EC-918—Boom or Bust (Impact of Business Cycles)

34. Managers can motivate employees to be more productive by 
A. developing automated systems.
B. ignoring employee feedback.
C. standardizing tasks.
D. offering flexible work hours.

34. D
Offering flexible work hours. Offering flexible work hours will give employees more control over their work schedules and allow them to maintain a healthier work-life balance. This will improve morale and productivity. Some businesses develop automated systems and find ways to standardize tasks to increase productivity, but these factors are not related to motivating employees. Employees who feel that their feedback has been taken seriously are more likely to be more motivated; therefore, ignoring their feedback will not improve productivity. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-EC-018—Make the Most of It (Productivity)
2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 9 

51. If an individual is looking to change careers, master new technology, or pursue a promotion, which of the following actions would be most effective in helping them achieve that goal: 
A. Discrediting their coworkers
B. Continuing their education
C. Learning an unrelated skill
D. Contacting former employers

51. B
Continuing their education. Workers who want to advance in or keep up with their chosen professions often need to obtain additional, ongoing education. There are many ways for workers to acquire job-related skills, such as taking online or in-person classes or participating in a worker training program. Learning an unrelated skill, discrediting coworkers, or contacting former employers would not be useful actions when looking to change careers, master new technology, or pursue a promotion. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: Laman, B. (2023, May 9). Community colleges' essential role in workforce development. Retrieved
February 5, 2024, from https://timelycare.com/blog/community-colleges-essential-role-in-workforcedevelopment/ 

54. Mason is seeking a non-tax-deferred retirement plan. What retirement plan should Mason pursue? 
A. Traditional IRA
B. 403(B)
C. Roth IRA
D. 401(k)

54. C
Roth IRA. A Roth IRA is a non-tax-deferred retirement plan in which contributions are made with after-tax income, but investors avoid capital gains taxes and owe no money at the time of withdrawal. Traditional IRA, 401(k), and 403(B) plans are all tax-deferred retirement plans, meaning that employees put their earned income into their plans before taxes are deducted. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (2024). Roth IRA vs. traditional IRA. Retrieved February 5, 2024, from
https://www.schwab.com/ira/roth-vs-traditional-ira 2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 14 

59. The upper-class citizens in the country of Aldiminia pay a higher income tax rate than the middle and lower classes. Aldiminia has a __________ tax structure. 
A. regressive
B. repetitive
C. progressive
D. proportional

59. C
Progressive. A progressive tax structure is one in which those who earn more are required to pay a higher percentage of their income in taxes. In other words, as the income increases, the tax rate also increases. If using a regressive tax structure, people who earn more income pay a lower percentage of income in taxes. As income increases, the tax rate decreases. A proportional tax structure is one in which everyone pays the same percentage of income in taxes, regardless of income level. Repetitive is not a type of tax structure. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-EC-072—Pay Your Share (Business Taxes)

73. Once Steve has been hired, Steve and his company must pay a tax on his employment. What type of tax is this called? 
A. Payroll tax
B. Property tax
C. Sales tax
D. Excise tax

73. A
Payroll tax. A payroll tax is a tax on employment, paid by both employers and employees. In the U.S., payroll taxes become trust funds for Social Security and Medicare. Excise taxes are taxes on products such as gasoline and alcohol; they are built into the product’s overall price. Property tax is a tax on property an individual or business owns, usually real estate. Sales tax is a tax on retail purchases. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-EC-072—Pay Your Share (Business Taxes)

75. Which of the following would most likely decrease a business’s productivity: 
A. Increased government regulation
B. Task specialization
C. Increased research and development
D. Two-way communication

75. A
Increased government regulation. An increase in government regulation could reduce productivity because of the time required to comply. Increased research and development would improve productivity because businesses would be more likely to discover newer and better technologies, methods, and products. Task specialization is when employees narrow their focus to one area of expertise. This would likely increase productivity. Productivity is increased by two-way communication between management and workers. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-EC-018—Make the Most of It (Productivity)

76. Employee compensation is comprised of wages and 
A. taxes.
B. discounts.
C. promotions.
D. benefits.

76. D
Benefits. Employee compensation includes a combination of pay and benefits. The benefit package is important because it amounts to about one-third of total compensation. Discounts are considered a type of benefit, but they are not the sole benefit offered to employees. Taxes and promotions are not considered a form of employee compensation. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: Wooll, M. (2022, August 17). Compensation and benefits: Why the right pay and perks matter.
Retrieved February 6, 2024, from https://www.betterup.com/blog/compensation-and-benefits 2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 19 

82. Business and worker production is likely to increase during an economic 
A. decline.
B. expansion.
C. trough.
D. recession.

82. B
Expansion. Expansion is a phase of the business cycle characterized by increased spending and borrowing, increased demand for goods and services, increased employment rates, and decreased interest rates on loans. During an expansion phase, businesses are likely to increase their production to meet increased consumer demand. Economic troughs, declines, and recessions are all periods where production is decreased. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-EC-918—Boom or Bust (Impact of Business Cycles)

88. Which of the following tools can governments use to stabilize the economy: 
A. Taxes
B. Job rotations
C. Treasury bonds
D. Mergers

88. A
Taxes. Taxes stabilize the economy because in times of need they can provide greater social services but be reduced in times of economic growth. Treasury bonds are marketable bonds issued by the U.S. government. While they can help the government finance its debt, they do little to help the overall economy. Mergers and job rotations are business activities, not government tools. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-EC-072—Pay Your Share (Business Taxes)

90. Having a set structure for raises and bonuses can help businesses 
A. remove emotion from discussions about compensation.
B. lower the overall compensation for its employees business-wide.
C. be more transparent about employee compensation.
D. keep compensation conversations one-on-one.

90. C
Be more transparent about employee compensation. One way to make conversations about compensation transparent, straightforward, and fair is to have a company-wide structure for raises and bonuses that is clearly laid out and explained. That way, employees know exactly what is expected of them and what they can do to raise their compensation levels. Keeping conversations one-on-one does not necessarily correlate with structured raises and bonuses. Removing emotion from the conversation is not necessarily possible, because people are likely to have emotional reactions when money is involved. Having set compensation structures does not allow businesses to reduce the wages of their employees. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: Officevibe. (2022, April 7). The secret to discussing pay with employees. Retrieved February 5,
2024, from https://officevibe.com/blog/secret-to-discussing-pay-with-employees 

93. One of the main challenges of small business ownership is the large amount of __________ involved. 
A. communication
B. budgeting
C. risk
D. control

93. C
Risk. Because small businesses are primarily backed by the business owner themselves, they will absorb all debt or losses should the business fail. This makes small business ownership considerably riskier than other forms of entrepreneurship. A high degree of control is a benefit of small business ownership, not a downfall. Communication is typically not a challenge for natural entrepreneurs, who are predisposed to be good communicators and leaders. While budgeting can be a challenge, it is actually a benefit to the business in the long term. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-PD-066—Own Your Own (Career Opportunities in Entrepreneurship)
2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 23 

2. A factor that can increase productivity is 
A. education.
B. population growth.
C. labor unions.
D. unskilled workers.

2. A
Education. Better educated and trained workers are usually more productive workers. Their higher levels of productivity contribute to overall productivity. Unskilled workers are usually less productive than trained workers. Population growth alone will not increase productivity. Labor unions are groups of workers who have joined together for a common purpose to improve the terms and conditions under which employees work. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: LAP-EC-018—Make the Most of It (Productivity)

8. When Brandon lost his job due to downsizing, the government sent him an unemployment check to help him cover his living expenses until he found another job. What is Brandon's source of income? 
A. Refund
B. Wage garnishment
C. Transfer payment
D. Rebate

8. C
Transfer payment. Income is money received from outside sources. Sources of income include salaries, interest earned, dividends, rent, and transfer payments. Transfer payments are monies paid by the government in which no goods or services are received in exchange, such as welfare benefits, veterans' benefits, disaster aid, and unemployment compensation. To receive transfer payments, individuals, businesses, or jurisdictions must meet certain criteria. A rebate is a return of part of the price a customer pays for a product, usually from the product's manufacturer. A refund is a sum of money given back to individuals or businesses. Refunds are issued when an excessive amount has been paid (e.g., tax refund) or when items have been returned to a business. Wage garnishments are court-ordered initiatives that involve taking income from an employee's salary and submitting it to another person or organization. Examples of garnishments include child support and alimony. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: Segal, T. (2021, September 15). Transfer payment: Definition, types of transfers, and examples.
Retrieved October 23, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/t/transferpayment.asp 

13. While managers help make entrepreneurs' visions a reality, they aren't required to 
A. set business objectives.
B. formulate company policy.
C. assume the risk involved.
D. implement procedures.

13. C
Assume the risk involved. Entrepreneurs assume the risks of starting and building their businesses, but they do not require their managers to take on this risk as well. Managers are responsible for setting business objectives, formulating policy, and implementing policies and procedures. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: LAP-PD-066—Own Your Own (Career Opportunities in Entrepreneurship)

16. If individuals enjoy operating machinery, driving vehicles, or using tools, they might consider a career that involves working with 
A. information.
B. people.
C. animals.
D. things.

16. D
Things. Individuals should consider what they like to do, including their favorite activities, when identifying possible occupations. For example, some individuals enjoy operating machinery, driving vehicles, or using tools. As a result, they might consider a career that involves working with things, which are tangible items. Examples include a landscaper who operates equipment and drives a truck and a carpenter who uses tools to build furniture. Careers that involve working with people and animals require a lot of personal interaction and patience. Careers that involve working with information involve keeping track of data such as facts and statistics. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: Government of Alberta. (2001-2023). Jobs where you drive or move things. Retrieved October 25,
2023, from https://alis.alberta.ca/tools-and-resources/resources-for-people-with-low-literacy/easyreading-make-some-job-choices/jobs-where-you-drive-or-move-things/ 

18. Harish enjoys playing basketball even though he's not very good at it. His sister Kajal, however, is a naturally talented athlete. In other words, Harish has a(n) __________ basketball, whereas Kajal has a(n) __________ basketball. 
A. interest in; aptitude for
B. aptitude for; ability for
C. aptitude for; interest in
D. interest in; passion for

18. A
Interest in; aptitude for. An interest is something that you enjoy doing or participating in, regardless of your natural ability for it. Since Harish enjoys playing basketball, he has an interest in it—even though he doesn't have an aptitude for it. An aptitude is a natural talent or ability for something. Kajal has an aptitude for basketball because she is a talented athlete. Just because you are good at something, however, doesn't mean you have an interest in it—Kajal may or may not be interested in basketball. It is impossible to tell from this example whether or not Harish or Kajal have a passion for basketball. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: McKay, D.R. (2019, August 21). Knowing your aptitude can help you choose a career. Retrieved
October 25, 2023, from https://www.liveabout.com/what-is-aptitude-526175 PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 5 

23. Jonathon, a high school student, recently received his very first paycheck—and he's a bit confused about what the different numbers mean. He wants to know how much money he actually gets to deposit into his bank account after taxes and other expenses have been taken out. Jonathon wants to know his 
A. gross income.
B. net income.
C. taxable income.
D. dividends.

23. B
Net income. Net income is the money remaining after expenses are subtracted from gross income. For individuals, net income is simply the amount of money taken home after taxes and other expenses are deducted. Gross income, on the other hand, is the total amount of money earned before taxes. Taxable income is the portion of an individual's or business's earnings that is subject to taxation. A dividend is a sum of money paid to an investor or stockholder as earnings on an investment. Jonathon is interested in knowing his net income in this example, not his gross income, taxable income, or dividends. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: Fiorillo, S. (2023, January 17). What's the difference between gross vs. net income? Retrieved October
24, 2023, from https://www.thestreet.com/personal-finance/gross-vs-net-income-14659057 

27. Smith Brothers typically promotes employees based on seniority. To do this, which of the following pieces of information would Smith Brothers need for each employee: 
A. Years worked at current job
B. Years of experience in the career field
C. Years of good performance at the current job
D. Years of college education

27. A
Years worked at current job. Seniority is based simply on the amount of time an employee has worked at their current position. It does not take into account years spent working a similar job at other companies. The type or number of years spent earning an advanced degree is not used to calculate seniority. Performance is not taken into consideration when seniority is calculated. Promotion based on good performance (merit-based) is a different method that could be used to determine promotion. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: Indeed. (2022, June 24). Seniority vs. performance in promotions: Definitions, pros and cons and
tips. Retrieved October 25, 2023, from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/careerdevelopment/seniority-vs-performance#:~:text=A%20seniority%2Dbased%20promotion%20 is%20where%20management%20 promotes%20an%20employee,other%20qualifications%20for%20the%20promotion 

35. What action can workers take to acquire new skills that can enhance their job performance? 
A. Complete a college application
B. Take classes at a community college
C. Obtain recommendations from others
D. Contact former employers

35. B
Take classes at a community college. Workers who want to advance in or keep up with their chosen professions often need to obtain additional, ongoing education. There are many ways for workers to acquire job-related skills, such as taking classes at a university or community college. Completing a college application, obtaining recommendations, and contacting former employers are not actions that help workers obtain new skills. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: Laman, B. (2023, May 9). Community colleges' essential role in workforce development. Retrieved
October 25, 2023, from https://timelycare.com/blog/community-colleges-essential-role-in-workforcedevelopment/ PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 9 

38. A survey designed to help you assess your strengths and weaknesses is a 
A. group talent test.
B. personal skills inventory.
C. group learning exam.
D. personal behavior survey.

38. B
Personal skills inventory. A survey designed to help you assess your strengths and weaknesses is a personal skills inventory. The survey asks multiple-choice questions related to your behavior, interests, and feelings. The survey is then scored, and you are given the results. The survey results often reveal new information about you that could be useful in the assessment process. Such surveys are not known as group talent tests, personal behavior surveys, or group learning exams. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: LAP-EI-902—Assess for Success (Assessing Personal Strengths and Weaknesses)

42. An important part of employee compensation is the 
A. intangible reward system.
B. benefit package.
C. discount rate.
D. wage garnishment.

42. B
Benefit package. Employee compensation includes a combination of pay and benefits. The benefit package is important because it amounts to about one-third of total compensation. Businesses need to consider the cost of the benefit package when developing staffing needs. For example, if an employee is paid $30,000 a year, the benefit package costs the business about $10,000 a year for a total of $40,000. There is a big difference between $30,000 and $40,000 when preparing a budget. Wage garnishment, intangible reward system, and discount rate are not important parts of employee compensation. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: Wooll, M. (2022, August 17). Compensation and benefits: Why the right pay and perks
matter. Retrieved October 25, 2023, from https://www.betterup.com/blog/compensation-andbenefits#:~:text=Compensation%20is%20an%20umbrella%20term,motivate%20employees%20 to%20perform%20better 

43. Knowing your personal strengths and weaknesses helps you 
A. perform well on a skills assessment test.
B. ask others for input about your strengths and abilities.
C. identify potential strengths and weaknesses in others.
D. make informed decisions about your future.

43. D
Make informed decisions about your future. By knowing your strengths—things you enjoy and do well—as well as your weaknesses, you can make better decisions about your future. For example, you might determine that you are artistic and enjoy drawing but have a hard time with math. When it is time to determine your career path, you might decide to become a graphic artist rather than a financial planner. By knowing yourself, you select a career that focuses on your strengths rather than your weaknesses, indicating that you are making a thoughtful, informed decision about your future. Identifying others' strengths and weaknesses does not help you identify your own strengths and weaknesses. Asking others for input about your abilities is one way in which you can identify your strengths and weaknesses. A skills assessment test is not about performing well or getting a good grade; rather, it is another way in which you can identify your strengths and weaknesses. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: LAP-EI-902—Assess for Success (Assessing Personal Strengths and Weaknesses)

49. Which of the following is a tax-deductible expense: 
A. Athletic-club membership fees
B. A computer for a home-based business
C. International leisure travel
D. Personal phone charges

49. B
A computer for a home-based business. Many business expenses—equipment, supplies, and travel—are tax deductible under specific conditions. Often, individuals pay for business-related goods and services up front and list them as deductions on their tax returns, which can lower their tax obligation. A computer used for a homebased business is an example of an item that can be claimed as a tax deduction on a tax return. Goods and services for personal consumption—personal phone charges, athletic-club membership fees, and international leisure travel—are not tax-deductible expenses. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: Corporate Finance Institute. (2015-2023). Tax deductible. Retrieved October 23, 2023, from
https://corporatefinanceinstitute.com/resources/accounting/tax-deductible/ 

50. When Jane received her first paycheck from her part-time job, she was surprised to see the amount was much less than her $8.00 per hour pay rate multiplied by the number of hours she worked. Jane had not planned on __________ tax being taken out of her paycheck. 
A. property
B. excise
C. income
D. sales

50. C
Income. Income tax is a tax on all income a person earns. A percentage of Jane's pay is taken out to pay for this tax. Property tax is tax on property, such as a house. Consumers pay a sales tax when they purchase many types of goods. Since Jane is receiving her pay, not buying a good, sales tax does not apply. Excise taxes are taxes paid when purchases are made on a specific good, such as gasoline. Excise taxes are often included in the price of the product. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: AmosWEB. (2000-2023). Taxes. Retrieved October 24, 2023, from http://www.amosweb.com/cgi-bin/
awb_nav.pl?s=wpd&c=dsp&k=taxes 

58. Which of the following is a characteristic of taxes: 
A. Applied only to tangibles
B. Restricted to businesses
C. Levied by governments
D. Encouraged by consumers

58. C
Levied by governments. Taxes are levied by various levels of government for different reasons. One reason is to generate revenue to fund programs. All levels of government, from small cities to the national level, need money to operate. They obtain this money by levying taxes on individuals and businesses. Taxes are not restricted to businesses or applied only to tangibles. Although consumers pay taxes, they usually do not encourage additional taxes. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-EC-072—Pay Your Share (Business Taxes)

68. Which of the following is a source of career information that would best help people who are currently employed identify better paying careers that suit their skills: 
A. School guidance offices
B. Temporary employment agencies
C. Career centers
D. Occupational Outlook Handbook

68. D
Occupational Outlook Handbook. This publication is available in most libraries and online and provides up-to-date information about the number of openings, advancement potential, and pay rates for a wide range of careers. It is revised regularly by the U.S. Department of Labor based on current job statistics. Career centers and school guidance offices are helpful sources of information for people who are still in school or ready to graduate. Temporary jobs can provide experience but are limited in scope and probably would not be helpful to people who are currently employed. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. (2023, September 6). Occupational outlook handbook. Retrieved
October 25, 2023, from https://www.bls.gov/ooh/ 

71. Each month, part of Meera's paycheck goes toward local taxes. This deduction affects her 
A. leave balance.
B. net income.
C. gross income.
D. salary.

71. B
Net income. Net income, also known as take-home pay, is money remaining after deductions (such as retirement account contributions or federal, state, or local taxes) have been taken out of the gross income, or the total amount of money an employee is paid before deductions. A salary is a money payment for labor, and a leave balance is the amount of paid or unpaid time employees have earned. Neither salary nor leave balance is affected by paycheck deductions. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: Kenton, W. (2022, May 20). Net income (NI) definition: Uses, and how to calculate it. Retrieved October
24, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/n/netincome.asp 

79. Employers and employees must pay federal taxes that are levied by the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA). Which of the following are included in FICA taxes: 
A. Federal Unemployment and Worker's Compensation
B. Medicare and Federal Unemployment
C. Social Security and Medicare
D. Worker's Compensation and Social Security

79. C
Social Security and Medicare. Employers are responsible for paying for half of their employees' FICA taxes, which includes Social Security and Medicare taxes. Employers (not employees) must pay unemployment taxes and contribute to the worker's compensation fund. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: Van Blaricom, D. (2022, December 5). Payroll taxes and employer responsibilities. Retrieved October
25, 2023, from https://www.thebalancesmb.com/payroll-taxes-3193126 PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 19 

80. Your web search results contain URLs from a variety of sources. Which of the following sources should provide the most reliable data: 
A. A Wikipedia site
B. A term paper
C. A government agency
D. A personal blog

80. C
A government agency. A government agency, such as the Bureau of Labor Statistics, should contain unbiased, accurate information. A term paper and a personal blog would probably be biased based on the writer's viewpoint. Although Wikipedia is an open source of information that is constantly updated, you might have received wiki information when it was inaccurate. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: Goodwill Community Foundation. (n.d.). How to judge online information. Retrieved October 25, 2023,
from https://edu.gcfglobal.org/en/digital-media-literacy/judging-online-information/1/ 

89. To determine your disposable income, what do you need to subtract from gross income? 
A. All taxes paid
B. Deductions for insurance
C. Retirement contributions
D. All taxes and deductions

89. A
All taxes paid. To determine your disposable income (money left to satisfy your needs and wants), you must subtract all taxes paid from gross income. Optional deductions for retirement contributions or for insurance are deducted from disposable income. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 12
SOURCE: Kenton, W. (2023, July 24). What is disposable income, and why is it important? Retrieved October 24,
2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/d/disposableincome.asp#:~:text=For%20an%20individual%2C%20 gross%20income,left%20represents%20your%20disposable%20income. PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 21 

92. Entrepreneurs typically work 
A. relatively few hours.
B. to employ under 500 employees.
C. on their businesses.
D. in their businesses.

92. C
On their businesses. Entrepreneurs work on their businesses rather than in them. Entrepreneurs typically work long and irregular hours, including weekends. Entrepreneurs work to grow their businesses. While their businesses may start small, they often turn into organizations that employ thousands of workers. 
SOURCE: Earning Income Grade 8
SOURCE: LAP-PD-066—Own Your Own (Career Opportunities in Entrepreneurship)

