Business Admin Core 2024 Exams

47. Which of the following is a business risk that can be covered by purchasing insurance: 
A. Economic conditions
B. Robbery
C. Spoilage
D. Competition

47. B
Robbery. Robbery and theft insurance covers specific risks such as theft of equipment or merchandise or risk of holdups. Spoilage, competition, and economic conditions are risks that usually cannot be covered by insurance. 
SOURCE: EC:011 Determine factors affecting business risk
SOURCE: LAP-EC-003—Lose, Win, or Draw (Business Risk)

63. What do you need to know to differentiate between consumer and industrial goods or services? 
A. Who bought the product?
B. Who sold the product and at what price?
C. Who produced the product?
D. Who bought the product and for what purpose?

63. D
Who bought the product and for what purpose? An industrial good is one purchased by a business for commercial use. A consumer good is one purchased by an individual for personal use. Price and source do not affect this distinction. 
SOURCE: EC:002 Distinguish between economic goods and services
SOURCE: LAP-EC-902—Get the Goods on Goods and Services (Economic Goods and Services)

73. A way that government regulates business is through 
A. industrialization.
B. licensing.
C. public goods.
D. service agencies.

73. B
Licensing. Licensing is the process of issuing a government permit allowing an individual or a business to function in the marketplace. Government uses licensing to regulate business when it grants or denies licenses. Service agencies are used to provide services, such as welfare and small business assistance, but they are not used to regulate business. Public goods are goods and services that are used by all people and cannot be withheld from people who don't help to pay for them. Industrialization is the change over from producing goods by hand labor to the use of machines and the organization of such production into industries. 
SOURCE: EC:008 Determine the relationship between government and business
SOURCE: LAP-EC-016—Regulate and Protect (Government and Business)

86. Which of the following statements is true about the concept of price: 
A. Buyers and sellers have the same objectives.
B. Excess supply causes a decrease in price.
C. Consumer goods are almost always sold at the equilibrium price.
D. Rationing determines the rise and fall of prices.

86. B
Excess supply causes a decrease in prices. Excess supply is the situation that exists when supply is greater than demand, causing prices to decrease. Buyers and sellers have opposing objectives in the marketplace. Buyers want to make sure the product is worth the price, and sellers want to make a maximum profit. The equilibrium price is the point at which the quantity of a good that buyers want to buy and the quantity that sellers are willing to sell at a certain price are exactly equal. This rarely occurs. Rationing determines how scarce resources will be distributed. 
SOURCE: EC:006 Describe the functions of prices in markets
SOURCE: LAP-EC-906—When More Is Less (Functions of Price)

88. A major problem for individuals and private businesses in a socialist command economy is 
A. profit.
B. a lack of competition.
C. a shortage of consumer goods.
D. taxes.

88. D
Taxes. Taxes are a heavy burden in socialist command economies. The high taxes that have been imposed to pay for government human-services programs reduce individuals' incomes and make the costs of production higher for businesses. Privately owned businesses are allowed to compete with state-owned businesses in socialist economies, but they must abide by the state's master plan in whatever way is necessary. A shortage of consumer goods is usually associated with a communist command economy rather than a socialist command economy. Profit is the financial gain of a business after all expenses have been paid. 
SOURCE: EC:007 Explain the types of economic systems
SOURCE: LAP-EC-907—Who's the Boss? (Economic Systems)

94. Rashid's business always puts the customer first. All of the company's decisions are made to satisfy customer wants and needs. Rashid's company is using the __________ concept. 
A. marketing
B. relative
C. utility
D. customer

94. A
Marketing. The marketing concept is a philosophy of conducting business that is based on the belief that all business activities should be aimed toward satisfying consumer wants and needs while achieving company goals. While utility and the marketing concept go hand in hand, the utility concept is not a term commonly used to refer to the marketing concept. The marketing concept is also not typically referred to as the customer concept or the relative concept. 
SOURCE: EC:004 Determine economic utilities created by business activities
SOURCE: LAP-EC-013—Use It (Economic Utility)
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 21 

98. When consumers purchase a product, they are giving up their 
A. demand.
B. utility.
C. desires.
D. buying power.

98. D
Buying power. The consumers have lost a portion of their ability to buy other goods by purchasing this product. Desires are fulfilled when they purchase this product. Demand for a product has not decreased when one consumer purchases it. Utility will be gained from the product, hence the consumers' desire to purchase it. 
SOURCE: EC:005 Explain the principles of supply and demand
SOURCE: LAP-EC-011—It's the Law (Supply and Demand)

1. According to the law of diminishing returns, if one input increases while all others are constant, the increases in output will 
A. remain the same.
B. eventually decline.
C. continue to increase.
D. decline before increasing.

1. B
Eventually decline. The law of diminishing returns is an economic concept that states that if one input increases while all others are constant, at some point the increases in output will decline. The law of diminishing returns (also sometimes referred to as the law of diminishing marginal returns or the law of variable proportions) does not state that if one input increases while all others are constant, the increases in output will continue to increase, remain the same, or decline before increasing. 
SOURCE: EC:023 Explain the impact of the law of diminishing returns
SOURCE: LAP-EC-023—Know Your Limits (Law of Diminishing Returns)

7. Which of the following is a disadvantage of specialization: 
A. Boredom may increase on the job
B. Worker dependency decreases
C. Worker training is simplified
D. Quantity of work increases

7. A
Boredom may increase on the job. Specialization is the process of using an employee’s narrow focus on one task or area of expertise in the production of goods and services. A disadvantage of specialization is that it may increase boredom on the job. In some areas of specialization, especially those involving mass production and assembly lines, repetition of the same task can cause employees to become bored and uninterested in their work. When this happens, productivity, employee satisfaction, and product quality may decrease, causing problems for the company. Another disadvantage of specialization is that worker dependency increases (rather than decreases). Simplified worker training is an advantage of specialization. Although specialization can increase the quality of work, it does not necessarily mean the quantity of work increases. 
SOURCE: EC:014 Analyze impact of specialization/division of labor on productivity
SOURCE: LAP-EC-914—Divide and Conquer (Specialization and Division of Labor)

12. Which of the following is a disadvantage of the matrix organizational structure: 
A. It can be costly to implement.
B. It encourages flexibility.
C. It discourages flexibility.
D. It reduces organizational unity.

12. A
It can be costly to implement. Since both department managers and team managers require higher compensation, a matrix structure is typically more expensive to implement than other structures. A matrix structure promotes unity; a reduction of organizational unity is a disadvantage of the divisional structure. A matrix structure encourages flexibility rather than discouraging it. However, this is an advantage of the matrix structure, not a disadvantage. 
SOURCE: EC:103 Explain the organizational design of businesses
SOURCE: LAP-EC-103—Designed to Work (Organizational Design of Business)

26. After 15 years as a salesman with one company, Kaiden recently accepted an international sales job, which will require him to travel to countries in Asia at least once a month. He assumes all of his customers will be just like the Asian-American customers he worked with in the United States. What is Kaiden guilty of? 
A. Jargon
B. Individualism
C. Stereotyping
D. Ethnocentrism

26. C
Stereotyping. Stereotyping involves generalizing people based on their cultural backgrounds. Kaiden is stereotyping his potential new customers by generalizing them based on their cultural background. Kaiden's customers in Asia will almost certainly not be just like his Asian-American customers from the U.S. Ethnocentrism is the belief that your own culture is naturally better than other cultures. Individualism is an emphasis on independent work and accomplishments, as those in an individualist society have loose group ties and are expected to take care of themselves. Jargon is specialized language known only to a certain group of people. 
SOURCE: EC:045 Discuss the impact of cultural and social environments on global trade
SOURCE: LAP-EC-045—On Top of the World (Impact of Culture on Global Trade)

32. When a store offers a discount on one of their products, they are providing __________ utility. 
A. possession
B. time
C. place
D. form

32. A
Possession. Possession utility is usefulness created when ownership of a product is transferred from the seller to the buyer. A discounted price of a product allows a consumer to take possession of an item without having to pay full price. Place utility is usefulness created by making sure that goods and services are available at the place where they are needed or wanted by customers. Form utility is usefulness created by altering or changing the form or shape of a good or service to make it more useful to the consumer. Time utility is usefulness created when products are made available at the time they are needed or wanted by consumers. 
SOURCE: EC:004 Determine economic utilities created by business activities
SOURCE: LAP-EC-904—Use It (Economic Utility)

39. Mercedes recently quit her job so that she could attend college. Mercedes is experiencing what type of unemployment? 
A. Structural
B. Frictional
C. Seasonal
D. Technological

39. B
Frictional. Frictional unemployment is voluntary unemployment that results from normal life circumstances. It can occur when a person transitions between jobs, quits their job to go back to college, or moves to a new city to look for better job opportunities. Structural unemployment is unemployment that arises when there is a mismatch between available workers and available jobs. This doesn’t simply mean that there are fewer jobs than there are workers, although that could be true. It might also mean that there are not enough workers qualified for the types of jobs that are available. Seasonal unemployment is a type of structural unemployment that affects seasonal employees, such as farm workers, lifeguards, ski-resort employees, tax-return preparers, and teachers. Technological unemployment is a type of structural unemployment that occurs when advances in technology eliminate certain job positions. 
SOURCE: EC:082 Discuss the impact of a nation's unemployment rates
SOURCE: LAP-EC-082—Help Wanted? (Impact of Unemployment Rates)

44. Which of the following is considered a strategic risk: 
A. Labor relations
B. Competition
C. Human errors
D. Property damage

44. B
Competition. Strategic risks can have significant impact on the company’s long-term plans. Strategic risks often concern the overall business environment, economic or political issues, or the company’s objectives. Some types include competition, reputation damage, regulatory and political issues, and changing customer needs or demographics. Human errors and labor relations are operational risks—the possible events and situations that can result from employee actions, core processes, and daily business activities. Property damage is a hazard risk—potential events or situations that can cause injury or harm to people, property, or the environment. 
SOURCE: EC:011 Determine factors affecting business risk
SOURCE: LAP-EC-003—Lose, Win, or Draw (Business Risk)

61. What is the relationship between the cost of production and supply? 
A. Production costs are unrelated to prices.
B. As supply rises, production costs decrease.
C. Lower production costs lead to decreased supply.
D. Higher production costs lead to decreased supply.

61. D
Higher production costs lead to decreased supply. If production costs are higher than the prices most consumers will be willing to pay, businesses will produce less and only supply enough to meet limited demand. Production costs directly impact prices. Supply rising does not necessarily cause production costs to decrease. 
SOURCE: EC:005 Explain the principles of supply and demand
SOURCE: LAP-EC-011—It’s the Law (Supply and Demand)

73. The government prevents a single business from controlling the entire production of a good or service. This is an example of how government involvement can 
A. provide public goods.
B. regulate workplace conditions.
C. conserve the environment.
D. protect competition.

73. D
Protect competition. Government tries to promote free competition for business by banning or regulating monopolies (when a single business influences the entire production of a particular good or service). Since a monopoly eliminates any major competitors, the monopoly can control the price of the product by restricting production. The regulation or banning of monopolies is how the government promotes and protects competition. This is not an example of how government involvement can regulate workplace conditions, conserve the environment, or provide public goods. 
SOURCE: EC:008 Determine the relationship between government and business
SOURCE: LAP-EC-016—Regulate and Protect (Government and Business)

82. Which of the following best describes a market economic system: 
A. Prices are set by the government.
B. Individuals and businesses own the means of production.
C. The government owns and controls all means of production.
D. It is sometimes called a subsistence system.

82. B
Individuals and businesses own the means of production. A market economy is an economic system in which the questions of what, how, and for whom products will be produced are answered by individuals and businesses in the marketplace. Therefore, in a market economic system, individuals and businesses own the means of production and distribution. In a market economic system, prices are controlled by supply and demand rather than being set by the government. In communist command economies, the government owns and controls practically all of the means of production and distribution. A traditional economic system is sometimes called a subsistence system. Subsistence is a level of existence that barely supports life. People in a traditional system consume all that they produce to satisfy their basic needs for food and shelter. 
SOURCE: EC:007 Explain the types of economic systems
SOURCE: LAP-EC-907—Who's the Boss? (Economic Systems)

95. After only two years of use, Jace’s laptop was obsolete, so he asked for a new one for his birthday. This is an example of 
A. strategic outsourcing.
B. shrinking product life cycles.
C. microscopic globalization.
D. e-commerce.

95. B
Shrinking product life cycles. A product’s life cycle refers to the stages it moves through from the time it is introduced to the market until the time it is taken off the market. Because of the rapid innovation now taking place in the worlds of business and technology, product life cycles have become shorter. Outsourcing involves acquiring assistance from outside organizations/consultants to obtain goods or services to accomplish business objectives or perform primary business activities. E-commerce is the buying and selling of goods online. Microscopic globalization is a fictitious term. 
SOURCE: EC:107 Explain how organizations adapt to today's markets
SOURCE: LAP-EC-107—Keep the Change (Adapting to Markets)

98. Bianca pays tax on a pair of jeans she buys at a retail store. What type of tax did Bianca pay in this situation? 
A. Income
B. Payroll
C. Sales
D. Property

98. C
Sales. Sales tax is a tax collected from consumers at the point of purchase, and usually a percentage of the total sale. Sales taxes are levied by state and local governments on most retail products. Businesses are responsible for collecting sales taxes from customers and turning them over to the appropriate governments. Property tax is tax based on a percentage of the value of the property owned, and most often applies to real estate. Income tax is a portion of an individual's or business's earnings owed to the government. Payroll tax is a tax on employment that is paid by both employers and employees. 
SOURCE: EC:072 Describe the nature of taxes
SOURCE: LAP-EC-072—Pay Your Share (Business Taxes)

16. Which of the following is an example of a nonrenewable resource: 
A. Wind
B. Gold
C. Soil
D. Sunlight

16. B
Gold. Gold is a nonrenewable resource because the supply is running out and it does not re-form quickly enough to replenish our supply. In contrast, soil, sunlight, and wind are considered renewable resources because their supply replenishes at a fast enough rate that they are not in danger of running out. 
SOURCE: EC:003 Explain the concept of economic resources
SOURCE: LAP-EC-903—Be Resourceful (Economic Resources)

25. A sales manager computes the number of sales each salesperson completes each day. The manager is measuring 
A. sales potential.
B. break-even point.
C. worker efficiency.
D. worker productivity.

25. D
Worker productivity. Worker productivity is the amount of work a worker can perform in a given period of time. The break-even point is the level of sales at which sales revenues equal total costs. Worker efficiency is accomplishing a task with a minimum expenditure of time and effort. Sales potential is the portion of the market that a business can reasonably hope to achieve. 
SOURCE: EC:013 Explain the concept of productivity
SOURCE: LAP-EC-018—Make the Most of It (Productivity)

37. Lack of economic growth is a major problem for __________ economic systems. 
A. communist command
B. traditional
C. socialist command
D. market

37. B
Traditional. Members of traditional economies consume everything that they produce, so they are unable to save. Without any savings, they cannot invest in greater production. As a result, they are unable to raise their economic standards. Although communist economies are often behind socialist and market economies in terms of economic development, none of those three types of economies grow as little as traditional systems. 
SOURCE: EC:007 Explain the types of economic systems
SOURCE: LAP-EC-907—Who's the Boss? (Economic Systems)

58. Roc's Burger Palace recently began accepting credit cards, which gives customers another method of payment. Accepting credit cards helps create __________ utility. 
A. possession
B. place
C. time
D. form

58. A
Possession. Possession utility is usefulness created when ownership of a product is transferred from the seller to the buyer. Place utility is created by making sure that goods and services are available at the place where they are needed or wanted by customers. Form utility is usefulness created by altering or changing the form or shape of a good to make it more useful to customers. Time utility is usefulness created when products are available at the time they are needed or wanted by customers. 
SOURCE: EC:004 Determine economic utilities created by business activities
SOURCE: LAP-EC-904—Use It (Economic Utility)

86. Which of the following is an example of an operational business risk: 
A. Property damage
B. Natural disasters
C. Human errors
D. Regulatory issues

86. C
Human errors. Operational risks are the possible events and situations that can result from employee actions, core processes, and daily business activities. Examples of operational risks include human errors, production problems, leadership problems, labor relations, and insufficient information management. Natural disasters and property damage are examples of hazard risks. Hazard risks are potential events or situations that can cause injury or harm to people, property, or the environment. Regulatory issues fall under the category of strategic risks. Strategic risks are much broader than the other types of risk and generally concern the overall business environment. 
SOURCE: EC:011 Determine factors affecting business risk
SOURCE: LAP-EC-003—Lose, Win, or Draw (Business Risk)

90. A major factor that affects a business's profit but over which the business has little control is the 
A. price charged for goods/services.
B. output from workers in the business.
C. economy of the nation.
D. expenses of the business.

90. C
Economy of the nation. Businesses have no control over the economy of the nation and, thus, no control over the amount of money that consumers have to spend. Business expenses can be controlled through such measures as seeking vendors with lower prices or eliminating services. Prices can be raised and/or lowered, depending upon the needs of the business. Worker output can be increased by rewarding attendance and superior performance. 
SOURCE: EC:010 Identify factors affecting a business's profit
SOURCE: LAP-EC-910—Risk Rewarded (Factors Affecting Profit)

96. Although the Calvert Automobile Company produces 1,500 Model ZX sports cars annually, over 500,000 people want to purchase the car each year. The 1,500 individuals who are willing and able to pay the high price to obtain the cars have 
A. unit control.
B. market position.
C. buying power.
D. absolute advantage.

96. C
Buying power. The Calvert Automobile Company situation is an example of rationing. Rationing is a function of relative prices that determines who gets the goods produced or how scarce resources will be distributed. In this situation, the 1,500 out of 500,000 individuals who are willing and able to pay a very high price to obtain the sports car have buying power—the ability (financial resources) to purchase the scarce item. Absolute advantage is the advantage achieved when a nation can produce a good or service for less than another nation. Market position is the rank of a particular business in a specific market. Unit control is a way of keeping track of inventory according to the number of units in stock. 
SOURCE: EC:006 Describe the functions of prices in markets
SOURCE: LAP-EC-906—When More Is Less (Functions of Prices)
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 22 

Business Management Administration 2024 Exams

8. Seeing a movie at a theater would be considered a(n) __________ want. 
A. unlimited
B. limited
C. noneconomic
D. economic

8. D
Economic. An economic want is something that you desire that has a monetary value. Seeing a movie would have a monetary value attached to it. A noneconomic want is a desire for something that has no monetary value. Wants are unlimited because everyone has them, they change, and people are not able to obtain enough resources to satisfy all of their wants. Limited wants do not exist. 
SOURCE: EC:001 Describe the concepts of economics and economic activities
SOURCE: LAP-EC-901—Are You Satisfied? (Economics and Economic Activities)

29. A developing country sets its currency to be the same value as the U.S. dollar. This is called a(n) 
A. direct exchange rate quotation.
B. free-floating currency.
C. pegged currency.
D. indirect exchange rate quotation.

29. C
Pegged currency. A pegged currency is set by a country's government to mirror another country's currency. This is often done by developing nations to give their currency stability. Free-floating currency is the opposite of pegged. Its value fluctuates based on supply and demand. In terms of U.S. dollars, an indirect quote is the number of U.S. dollars that one unit of a foreign currency could buy. In terms of U.S. dollars, a direct quote is the number of a foreign currency that one dollar could buy. For example, a direct quote for the units could be U.S. $1.50 = 1 Euro. 
SOURCE: EC:100 Describe the determinants of exchange rates and their effects on the domestic economy
SOURCE: LAP-EC-100—Get Your Money's Worth (Exchange Rates)

46. Mr. Williams's small pharmacy has been in operation for 10 years. Recently, a few senior citizens have asked to be billed once a month for medicines and other medical supplies. Mr. Williams would like to accommodate the seniors but is not sure of the effect these changes would have on his business. Which business activity would help Mr. Williams make a sound decision? 
A. Strategic management
B. Marketing
C. Financial analysis
D. Production

46. C
Financial analysis. This is the process of planning, maintaining, monitoring, controlling, and reporting the use of financial resources. It includes how to obtain funds for the business's operations and how to spend the funds. The marketing activity would add utility to the goods or services by enabling consumers to obtain the services they need where and when they are needed. The management activity coordinates the resources so that the services are available for the consumers. Production would include the creation of the needed goods or services from the economic resources. 
SOURCE: EC:071 Describe types of business activities
SOURCE: LAP-EC-071—Strictly Business (Business Activities)

61. Who typically pays payroll taxes? 
A. Employers only
B. Employers and employees
C. Employees only
D. Government entities

61. B
Employers and employees. Payroll taxes, such as Medicare and Social Security taxes, are taxes typically paid by both employers and employees. Employees and employers each pay half of what is charged for Medicare and Social Security taxes, which are collectively known as FICA. The revenue generated by payroll taxes go to fund government programs, among other things. 
SOURCE: EC:072 Describe the nature of taxes
SOURCE: LAP-EC-072—Pay Your Share (Business Taxes)

62. If the supply of a product decreases while demand remains the same, the price the consumer is charged for the product will probably 
A. decrease.
B. stabilize.
C. remain the same.
D. increase.

62. D
Increase. A decrease in supply without a corresponding decrease in demand will result in an increase in the price of an item. This may create a seller's market in which demand is so great that consumers will buy regardless of high prices. The price will likely not remain the same, stabilize, or decrease. 
SOURCE: EC:005 Explain the principles of supply and demand
SOURCE: LAP-EC-011—It's the Law (Supply and Demand)

93. Which of the following is a way in which business profits benefit society: 
A. Profits indicate trends in consumer preferences.
B. Profits enable businesses to compete with other businesses.
C. Profits encourage business owners to conserve resources.
D. Profits provide an incentive to entrepreneurs.

93. C
Profits encourage business owners to conserve resources. Profits encourage business owners to make their businesses more efficient so that they will make even more profits. Conserving resources is one way of being more efficient. Conservation of resources benefits society because it means more resources will be available for future consumers. All of the other alternatives are ways in which profits benefit businesses. 
SOURCE: EC:010 Identify factors affecting a business's profit
SOURCE: LAP-EC-910—Risk Rewarded (Factors Affecting Profit)

8. A well-structured business 
A. does not include lateral relations.
B. can retain high-quality employees.
C. does not need a division of labor.
D. likely uses a matrix structure.

8. B
Can retain high-quality employees. A business that has an innovative and efficient organization leads to high productivity, profitability, and the ability to attract and retain high-quality employees. Businesses that are wellstructured still need a division of labor to operate efficiently. A well-structured business does not necessarily use one organizational structure specifically; a business can function well in a variety of structures. Lateral relations are important for all businesses because no matter what structure an organization’s leaders choose to implement, they should strive to include as much teamwork and cooperation among employees as possible. 
SOURCE: EC:103 Explain the organizational design of businesses
SOURCE: LAP-EC-103—Designed to Work (Organizational Design of Business)

17. Which of the following is true regarding a product: 
A. Individuals and businesses prefer tangible products.
B. The same product might have very different utility levels.
C. Individuals and businesses prefer intangible products.
D. The same product will always have the same utility level.

17. B
The same product might have very different utility levels. A product’s utility is completely relative. This means that utility isn’t the same across the board. The same product might have wildly different utility levels, depending on who’s using it and how they are using it. Individuals and businesses do not always prefer tangible or intangible products—their product preference will depend on their unique wants and needs. 
SOURCE: EC:004 Determine economic utilities created by business activities
SOURCE: LAP-EC-904—Use It (Economic Utility)
2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 5 

28. According to Geert Hofstede’s dimensions of national cultures, a society in which people live freely and prioritize having fun is one with high levels of 
A. power distance.
B. restraint.
C. uncertainty avoidance.
D. indulgence.

28. D
Indulgence. According to Geert Hofstede’s dimensions of national cultures, societies with high levels of indulgence believe that people should freely enjoy life and have fun. Those with high levels of restraint believe that enjoyment should be regulated and restricted. Power distance is a dimension of national culture that refers to how accepting less-powerful members of a society are of the inequality within the society. Uncertainty avoidance refers to a society’s tolerance of uncertainty or insecurity. Members of uncertainty-avoiding cultures prefer structure, rules, and safety. 
SOURCE: EC:045 Discuss the impact of cultural and social environments on global trade
SOURCE: LAP-EC-045—On Top of the World (Impact of Culture on Global Trade)

64. When customers don’t buy a business's product, the business should 
A. raise the product’s price.
B. replace the product.
C. sue the customers.
D. hire new employees.

64. B
Replace the product. If consumers don’t buy a product, the producer must change it, replace it, or go out of business. Each time a consumer makes a purchase, they are casting an economic vote in the marketplace. These economic votes enable consumers to control what will be produced. Raising the product’s price will likely further discourage customers from buying the product. Hiring new employees does not address the issue that customers do not like the product. Suing customers would not increase sales, and there would likely be no grounds for a lawsuit. 
SOURCE: EC:009 Explain the concept of private enterprise
SOURCE: LAP-EC-909—People Power (The Private Enterprise System)

34. A disease has ruined the orange crop for this season. Therefore, the price of oranges will 
A. double.
B. remain the same.
C. decrease.
D. increase.

34. D
Increase. When supply (the number of like products that will be offered for sale at a particular time at a certain price) is short, consumers bid against one another to obtain the product. Because there will not be enough oranges to meet consumer demand, the price of oranges will increase. However, there is no way to determine that prices will double. The price is not likely to remain the same or decrease, because there will not be enough oranges to meet demand. 
SOURCE: EC:005 Explain the principles of supply and demand
SOURCE: LAP-EC-011—It's the Law (Supply and Demand)

42. Inflation influences the balance of trade between countries through its effect on 
A. menu costs.
B. the availability of commodities.
C. the Consumer Price Index.
D. currency exchange rates.

42. D
Currency exchange rates. Inflation influences the balance of trade between countries through its effect on currency exchange rates. Currency exchange rates are a measure of the value of one country’s money in relation to another’s. When inflation is much higher in one country than in another, businesses in that country are in a weaker competitive position. Menu costs are the expenses involved with changing prices; they are not a direct influence on the balance of trade. The Consumer Price Index is an inflation-monitoring tool; it does not affect inflation. The availability of commodities may affect inflation, but inflation does not affect the availability of commodities. 
SOURCE: EC:083 Describe the economic impact of inflation on business
SOURCE: LAP-EC-083—Up, Up, and Away (Inflation)
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 11 

80. Which of the following is most likely to have a serious negative impact on a developed country's ability to participate in world trade: 
A. Technological advances
B. Unstable government
C. Difference in language
D. Foreign exchange rate

80. B
Unstable government. An unstable government can negatively impact a country's economy and international relations, making world trade difficult to conduct. The foreign exchange rate could have either a beneficial or negative impact on world trade, depending on the currencies involved. A difference in language can make world trade more difficult, but developed nations often speak more than one language, and translators and translation software make language barriers easy to overcome. Technological advances generally impact world trade in positive ways for developed countries. 
SOURCE: EC:113 Describe the impact of the political environment on world trade
SOURCE: Juneja, P. (n.d.). Impact of political stability on businesses and working professionals. Retrieved
September 21, 2023, from https://www.managementstudyguide.com/impact-of-political-stability-onbusinesses-and-professionals.htm BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 20 

99. Avery is a recent college graduate who is not working and is actively looking for a job. This is an example of __________ unemployment. 
A. frictional
B. cyclical
C. structural
D. relational

99. A
Frictional. Frictional unemployment is always present in the economy and occurs because there are always workers who are in transition. Transitions occur for a variety of reasons. Avery is transitioning from being a college student to being a member of the workforce. Other transitions might include reentering the workforce after raising children or a change of career path. Structural unemployment occurs when the demand for certain types of workers declines and is often due to technology advancements and the need for new skills. Cyclical unemployment is the result of changes in the economic and business cycles. For example, if the GDP declines, unemployment tends to increase. Relational is not a type of unemployment. 
SOURCE: EC:082 Discuss the impact of a nation's unemployment rates
SOURCE: Kagan, J. (2022, December 18). Frictional unemployment. Retrieved September 20, 2023,
from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/f/frictionalunemployment.asp 

Entrepreneurship 2024 Exams

20. Which of the following decreases as production increases in a business that has economies of scale: 
A. Income taxes
B. Pay rates
C. Net profits
D. Fixed costs

20. D
Fixed costs. Economies of scale are characteristics that allow a business to increase output without experiencing a comparable increase in the cost of production. The fixed costs of production are spread over more units so the overall cost of producing more and more products actually decreases. For example, once an electric plant is built, the cost of producing electricity decreases because the cost of building the facility is spread over more and more units of electricity. In a business that has economies of scale, net profits may increase, which will lead to an increase in income tax. Pay rates usually do not decrease as a result of economies of scale. 
SOURCE: EC:077 Describe the concept of economies of scale
SOURCE: Kenton, W. (2022, June 11). Economies of scale. Retrieved August 10, 2023, from
http://www.investopedia.com/terms/e/economiesofscale.asp 

38. Which of the following is an example of two businesses that are indirect competitors: 
A. McDonald's and Burger King
B. Starbucks and American Eagle Outfitters
C. AT&T and Verizon
D. Apple and Microsoft

38. B
Starbucks and American Eagle Outfitters. Indirect competition is a rivalry between or among businesses that offer dissimilar goods or services. Starbucks offers coffee and other specialty drinks, while American Eagle Outfitters sells clothing. The businesses offer different products but are competing for consumers' scarce dollars, making them indirect competitors. On the other hand, direct competition is a rivalry between or among businesses that offer similar types of goods or services. For example, Apple and Microsoft sell computers, software, and other electronics; McDonald's and Burger King sell fast food; and AT&T and Verizon sell cell phone services. 
SOURCE: EC:012 Explain the concept of competition
SOURCE: LAP-EC-912—Ready, Set, Compete! (Competition)
ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 10 

81. One of the leading computer manufacturers has decided to produce software cases of high quality and high price. Who will ultimately decide if the price is too high? 
A. Consumers
B. Government
C. Competition
D. Manufacturer

81. A
Consumers. Each time consumers make a purchase, they cast their economic vote, and these votes enable consumers to control what will be produced. The government has limited power and should only step in to protect citizens. The competition would be the other manufacturers that sell the same or similar products. The manufacturer would only determine what is to be produced. 
SOURCE: EC:009 Explain the concept of private enterprise
SOURCE: LAP-EC-015—People Power (The Private Enterprise System)

31. The ABCD Corporation has to pay taxes on its profits. What type of tax does this refer to? 
A. Income
B. Payroll
C. Excise
D. Property

31. A
Income. Income tax refers to a portion of an individual's or business's earnings owed to the government. Simply put, businesses must pay income taxes on the profits they make, just as individuals are required to do. Because the ABCD Corporation pays taxes on the profits it makes, this refers to income tax. Payroll tax is a tax on employment that is paid by both employers and employees, and it is used to fund Social Security and Medicare in the United States. Excise tax is an indirect tax charged on specific goods, such as gasoline and alcohol. Property tax is a tax based on a percentage of the value of the property owned, and most often applies to real estate. 
SOURCE: EC:072 Describe the nature of taxes
SOURCE: LAP-EC-072—Pay Your Share (Business Taxes)

93. Businesses often take out insurance policies against __________ risks. 
A. speculative
B. tangible
C. intangible
D. pure

93. D
Pure. With pure risk, there are two possibilities—loss or no loss. Either something bad happens or nothing happens. Pure risks are considered insurable risks, meaning that businesses are able to take out insurance policies against them. For example, a business can get auto insurance to protect company vehicles. Speculative risks are not insurable. Tangible and intangible are descriptors more frequently applied to assets in risk management rather than types of risks themselves. 
SOURCE: EC:011 Determine factors affecting business risk
SOURCE: LAP-EC-911—Lose, Win, or Draw (Business Risk)

19. A new business that purchases insurance for its fleet of delivery trucks is handling risk by ___________ it. 
A. retaining
B. avoiding
C. controlling
D. transferring

19. D
Transferring. The business has transferred the risk to the insurance company. The business will pay the insurance company fees called premiums in order to be reimbursed by the insurance company if its trucks are damaged, stolen, or wrecked. A risk is being avoided if it is recognized and eliminated. A business is retaining, or keeping, a risk if it does nothing about it. A risk is being controlled when measures are taken to prevent or reduce the risk factor. 
SOURCE: EC:011 Determine factors affecting business risk
SOURCE: LAP-EC-003—Lose, Win, or Draw (Business Risk)

34. Entrepreneurs contribute to our society by 
A. making friends with employees.
B. donating to charities.
C. creating new jobs.
D. running for political office.

34. C
Creating new jobs. Entrepreneurs contribute to society by providing jobs for employees. They do not necessarily contribute to society by donating to charities, running for political office, or making friends with employees. 
SOURCE: EC:065 Identify the impact of small business/entrepreneurship on market economies
SOURCE: Seth, S. (2023, August 24). Why entrepreneurship is important to the economy. Retrieved October 2,
2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/articles/personal-finance/101414/why-entrepreneurs-areimportant-economy.asp 

82. Which of the following factors works together in private enterprise to determine prices: 
A. Profit motives
B. Supply and demand
C. Goods and services
D. Economic resources

82. B
Supply and demand. Supply and demand is the economic principle which states that the supply of a good or service will increase when demand is great and decrease when demand is low. Supply and demand work together in private enterprise to determine prices. Consumers indicate their demand for products by the prices they are willing to pay for those products. If the price rises too high, some consumers will buy less. The supply will then exceed the demand, causing the price to fall. Economic resources are the human and natural resources and capital goods used to produce goods and services. Profit motive is the desire to make a profit which moves people to invest in business. Goods and services are the tangible and intangible objects that can be sold. 
SOURCE: EC:009 Explain the concept of private enterprise
SOURCE: LAP-EC-015—People Power (The Private Enterprise System)
ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 20 

Finance 2024 Exams

4. The addition of too many workers on a job may cause the marginal product to turn 
A. positive.
B. upward.
C. variable.
D. negative.

4. D
Negative. The law of diminishing returns states that if all the factors of production remain the same except one, additions to the one variable factor will eventually decrease the level of productivity. If a business adds too many workers, the level of productivity will decrease and may even become negative if those workers do not have sufficient resources to function properly. A business with too many workers may end up spending more money to produce products than the products generate in income. At that point, the marginal product turns negative. The addition of too many workers does not cause the marginal product to turn upward or positive. Workers are a variable factor in production over which a business has control. 
SOURCE: EC:023 Explain the impact of the law of diminishing returns
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2022, April 4). Law of diminishing marginal returns. Retrieved August 10, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/l/lawofdiminishingmarginalreturn.asp 4.9%. Based on the information provided, the yield percentage, also called the rate of return or dividend yield, of

14. An example of price competition is a hotel's promotion of its 
A. airport shuttle bus.
B. special weekend room rates.
C. trained service staff.
D. sauna and exercise equipment.

14. B
Special weekend room rates. The hotel promotion encourages customers to book a reservation by offering them a reduced price for a weekend reservation. Trained service staff, an airport shuttle bus, and sauna and exercise equipment are hotel services that could be used in nonprice competition. 
SOURCE: EC:012 Explain the concept of competition
SOURCE: LAP-EC-912—Ready, Set, Compete! (Competition)
FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 4 

34. Which of the following work situations would best demonstrate a job with high depth and high scope: 
A. A manager is responsible for developing the monthly work schedule for employees.
B. The manager signs the employee time cards at the end of each work week.
C. The manager of a restaurant selects the monthly menu and designs a newspaper advertisement.
D. The manager evaluates employee performance according to the owner's standard.

34. C
The manager of a restaurant selects the monthly menu and designs a newspaper advertisement. Selecting the menu and designing an advertisement represent a variety of tasks and also a high degree of latitude concerning decision-making. The relationship of scope and depth can change with a specific task, so the amount of scope and depth varies at different times. A manager developing a monthly work schedule is an example of high depth. Signing time cards is low scope. Following guidelines to evaluate performance is an example of low depth. 
SOURCE: EC:014 Analyze impact of specialization/division of labor on productivity
SOURCE: LAP-EC-914—Divide and Conquer (Specialization and Division of Labor)

78. Which of the following factors may influence supply: 
A. Standard of living
B. Natural disasters
C. Product utility
D. Number of consumers

78. B
Natural disasters. Sometimes supply will be changed as a result of the weather or other natural or uncontrollable events. Untimely frosts and freezes, hail, and floods are examples of natural weather disasters. Product utility, the number of consumers, and their standard of living would influence demand rather than supply. 
SOURCE: EC:005 Explain the principles of supply and demand
SOURCE: LAP-EC-011—It's the Law (Supply and Demand)

85. Which of the following is an example of a capital good: 
A. Coal
B. A pine forest
C. A highway
D. A cashier

85. C
A highway. Capital goods are manufactured or constructed items that are used in the production of goods and services. Highways enable producers to distribute goods to consumers. A pine forest and coal are examples of natural resources, items that are found in nature and used to produce goods and services. A cashier is someone who works to produce goods and services, or a human resource. 
SOURCE: EC:003 Explain the concept of economic resources
SOURCE: LAP-EC-903—Be Resourceful (Economic Resources)

95. Businesspeople from one country need to be aware of the cultural differences of businesspeople from other parts of the world to avoid 
A. discussing finances.
B. being insulting or rude.
C. asking questions.
D. meeting face-to-face.

95. B
Being insulting or rude. Businesspeople need to be aware of cultural differences in order to avoid accidentally insulting or being rude to businesspeople from other parts of the world. For example, some forms of nonverbal communication are offensive in some countries although they are accepted in others. In some countries it is rude to start and end a meeting on time, but that is the standard in other countries. In some countries businesspeople shake hands when they meet but hug or bow in other countries. Without knowing what is acceptable, businesspeople run the risk of being insulting or rude. Businesspeople usually meet face-to-face, ask questions, and discuss finances. 
SOURCE: EC:045 Discuss the impact of cultural and social environments on global trade
SOURCE: LAP-EC-045—On Top of the World (Impact of Culture on Global Trade)

8. In the private enterprise system, individuals have the freedom to choose 
A. their own economic goals.
B. how much they will be paid.
C. which laws to obey.
D. which taxes they will pay.

8. A
Their own economic goals. There are a number of economic choices that individuals in a private enterprise economy are free to make. One of the most basic is the freedom to choose your own personal economic goals. You are free to select the standard of living that you would like to achieve. They are not, however, free to choose which taxes to pay, which laws to obey, or how much they will be paid by their employers. 
SOURCE: EC:009 Explain the concept of private enterprise
SOURCE: LAP-EC-909—People Power (The Private Enterprise System)

15. Which of the following scenarios best represents a tariff: 
A. A country limits the number of products foreign nations can sell in its country.
B. A country's government determines the prices at which products can be sold.
C. A country makes illegal payments in an effort to secure products in return.
D. A country places taxes on imported products to increase their selling prices.

15. D
A country places taxes on imported products to increase their selling prices. A tariff (also known as a duty) is a tax on imported goods. A country limiting the number of products foreign nations can sell in its country is an example of a quota—a trade restriction that limits the quantity of goods that can move into or out of a country. A country's government determining the prices at which products can be sold is an example of a price control— government determination of product prices. A country making illegal payments in an effort to secure products in return is an example of bribery—making illegal payments intended to secure business or products in return. 
SOURCE: EC:045 Discuss the impact of cultural and social environments on global trade
SOURCE: LAP-EC-045—On Top of the World (Impact of Culture on Global Trade)

81. Because of the internet, most movies and TV shows are streamed online rather than purchased as DVDs. This is an example of the internet changing the __________ utility of a product. 
A. place
B. possession
C. form
D. time

81. C
Form. Form utility is usefulness created by altering or changing the form or shape of a product to make it more useful to customers. Thanks to the internet, the form utility of movies has changed from the physical medium of DVDs to the digital form of streaming services. While the internet has impacted the time, place, and possession utilities of many products, the shift from DVDs to digital streaming is not an example of these forms. 
SOURCE: EC:004 Determine economic utilities created by business activities
SOURCE: LAP-EC-904—Use It (Economic Utility)

90. Natural disasters like tornadoes, earthquakes, and floods are considered __________ risks. 
A. operational
B. hazard
C. financial
D. strategic

90. B
Hazard. Hazard risks are potential events or situations that can cause injury or harm to people, property, or the environment. Most hazard risks can only cause business losses, not gains. Types of hazard risks include natural disasters, like tornadoes, earthquakes, floods, blizzards, hurricanes, and wildfires. Operational risks are the possible events and situations that can result from employee actions, core processes, and daily business activities. Strategic risks often concern the overall business environment, economic or political issues, or the company’s objectives. Financial risks are possible events or situations that directly influence a company’s cash flow. 
SOURCE: EC:011 Determine factors affecting business risk
SOURCE: LAP-EC-911—Lose, Win, or Draw (Business Risk)

26. Businesses should strive to behave ethically in addition to fulfilling their obligations to the law. This is because when people are free to start a business and pursue success, they also accept a level of 
A. transparency.
B. ethical principles.
C. stakeholders.
D. social responsibility.

26. D
Social responsibility. In a free enterprise system, anyone and everyone is free to start a business and pursue its success. However, along with this privilege comes social responsibility. Social responsibility is the duty of business to contribute to the well-being of society. Ethical principles are standards that govern behavior. Being transparent means being truthful when communicating. Stakeholders are people or businesses who are affected by a company's success or failure. 
SOURCE: EC:106 Explain the nature of business ethics
SOURCE: LAP-EC-106—On the Up and Up (Business Ethics)
FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 7 

46. When businesses compete by offering consumers higher quality products, increased customer service, and attractive stores, they are engaging in __________ competition. 
A. nonprice
B. direct
C. price
D. pure

46. A
Nonprice. Nonprice competition involves factors other than price. Price competition focuses on the use of price to attract scarce customer dollars. Pure competition exists when there are so many sellers and buyers of a product that no one can influence the price. Direct competition occurs among businesses that offer similar types of goods or services. It cannot be determined from this example whether the competition is direct or indirect. 
SOURCE: EC:012 Explain the concept of competition
SOURCE: LAP-EC-912—Ready, Set, Compete! (Competition)

61. The amount of a product that is produced is most directly affected by 
A. product value.
B. product utility.
C. labor unions.
D. consumer demand.

61. D
Consumer demand. Consumer demand is the quantity of a good or service that buyers are ready to buy at a given price at a particular time. Producers will continue to provide a product in direct proportion to the demand for it, as long as it is profitable for them to do so. Producers must carefully watch for fluctuations in consumer demand to produce what is wanted by consumers—not necessarily what is demanded by producers. Product utility, or usefulness, and the value of products to consumers are factors that determine demand. Not all products are produced by members of labor unions. 
SOURCE: EC:005 Explain the principles of supply and demand
SOURCE: LAP-EC-011—It's the Law (Supply and Demand)

74. An American manufacturing company has always produced its products in the United States. But in recent years, increased competition from foreign manufacturers has forced the company to move some of its manufacturing operations overseas. The cost of labor is simply cheaper in other countries. This is an example of the effects of __________ on business. 
A. globalization
B. exchange of technology
C. domestic operations
D. knowledge transfer

74. A
Globalization. Globalization is the rapid and unimpeded flow of capital, labor, and ideas across national borders. One of the major impacts of globalization on business is increased competition. As a result of globalization, companies now operate in several different countries—and have access to more markets than ever before. This increases competition among businesses in the same industry. This example demonstrates the effects of globalization-related competition on business. The exchange of technology and the transfer of knowledge are both by-products of globalization, not effects of globalization. Domestic operations refers to business that takes place in a company's home country. 
SOURCE: EC:109 Discuss the impact of globalization on business
SOURCE: National Geographic Society. (1996-2023). Effects of economic globalization. Retrieved September
28, 2023, from https://education.nationalgeographic.org/resource/effects-economic-globalization 

90. Which of the following situations would cause prices to rise: 
A. A newspaper article describes poor service provided by a hotel.
B. Insects destroy a large cotton crop.
C. The corn crop is unusually large one summer.
D. Animal rights activists march in front of a fur store.

90. B
Insects destroy a large cotton crop. The decrease in the supply of cotton will cause an increase in prices. An increase in the corn crop will cause excess supply resulting in a decrease in prices. Negative comments about a hotel or by activists will probably decrease demand and cause prices to fall. 
SOURCE: EC:006 Describe the functions of prices in markets
SOURCE: LAP-EC-906—When More Is Less (Functions of Prices)

Hospitality 2024 Exams

17. Which of the following is a pure business risk: 
A. Obsolescence
B. Inflation
C. Robbery
D. Competition

17. C
Robbery. A pure risk is one that carries the possibility of loss or no loss. Robbery is a pure business risk that can be covered by insurance. Obsolescence, competition, and inflation are speculative risks because they could bring gain. 
SOURCE: EC:011 Determine factors affecting business risk
SOURCE: LAP-EC-003—Lose, Win, or Draw (Business Risk)

45. Orlando changes the price of one of his products, and this price change leads to a major change in the number of people who purchase the product. This means that demand for Orlando’s product is 
A. elastic.
B. competitive.
C. constant.
D. inelastic.

45. A
Elastic. Elastic demand is a form of demand for products in which changes in price correspond to changes in demand. Demand is inelastic when a change in price does not significantly affect demand. Inelastic demand exists if the demand for a product is constant, or ongoing. Demand is not described as competitive, but it is affected by competition. Products are more likely to have elastic demand if competitive products are available for consumers to purchase. 
SOURCE: EC:005 Explain the principles of supply and demand
SOURCE: LAP-EC-011—It's the Law (Supply and Demand)
HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 11 

48. One way that a business might try to compensate for the limited number of qualified workers is to increase its use of 
A. specialization.
B. conservation.
C. production.
D. automation.

48. D
Automation. Automation is the use of robots or other automatic equipment to do certain tasks. A business might make up for the shortage of qualified workers by relying more on the use of automated equipment or machinery. For example, the use of automatic phone systems often eliminates the need for a business to hire experienced phone operators. Production is the process or activity of producing goods and services. Specialization is the process of making the best use of resources in the production of goods and services. Conservation is the preservation and protection of resources and usually refers to natural resources rather than human resources. 
SOURCE: EC:003 Explain the concept of economic resources
SOURCE: LAP-EC-903—Be Resourceful (Economic Resources)

52. The goals of government are to protect the rights of individuals and businesses and to provide a stable environment, but the main goal of business is to 
A. save the environment.
B. provide the best products.
C. provide a safe working environment.
D. make a profit.

52. D
Make a profit. Making a profit is the main goal of business. Profit is the monetary reward a business owner receives for taking the risk involved in investing in business. By providing the best products possible, business owners increase the likelihood of making a profit. Businesses also need to be socially responsible by helping save the environment and by providing a safe working environment. 
SOURCE: EC:008 Determine the relationship between government and business
SOURCE: LAP-EC-016—Regulate and Protect (Government and Business)

73. Nancy's Beach Resort operates a small store that sells sunscreen, towels, beach chairs, and various lotions to its customers. Which of the following utilities has Nancy's Beach Resort demonstrated: 
A. Place
B. Time
C. Possession
D. Form

73. A
Place. Place utility is usefulness created by making sure that goods or services are available at the place where they are needed or wanted by consumers. People at the beach would expect to find beach products at the store. Time utility is usefulness created when products are made available at the time they are needed or wanted by consumers. Possession utility is usefulness created when ownership of a product is transferred from the seller to the user. Form utility is usefulness created by altering or changing the form or shape of a good to make it more useful to the consumer. 
SOURCE: EC:004 Determine economic utilities created by business activities
SOURCE: LAP-EC-013—Use It (Economic Utility)

82. Which of the following is a true statement about how technology affects the external business environment: 
A. Technology is the main way to compete with other businesses.
B. Not all businesses are affected by technology.
C. Businesses must look for updated technology all the time.
D. Certain target markets do not use technological products.

82. C
Businesses must look for updated technology all the time. Because new technology is being introduced all the time, businesses must constantly be on the lookout for updated technological tools that will help them be more efficient. All businesses are affected by technology in one way or another. Technology is just one way for a business to compete—it might also compete through pricing strategies, promotional campaigns, etc. Though some target markets may use technology more than others, all target markets are affected by and use technology. 
SOURCE: EC:105 Describe factors that affect the business environment
SOURCE: LAP-EC-105—What's Shakin'? (Factors Affecting the Business Environment)

5. Fatima is from a culture where individuals rely mainly on nonverbal communication to get their messages across. In other words, Fatima is from a __________ culture. 
A. neutral
B. affective
C. low-context
D. high-context

5. D
High-context. A high-context culture is a culture that relies heavily on nonverbal communication to get messages across. Other cultures rely more on verbal communication—speaking up and saying exactly what you mean. These are known as low-context cultures. An affective culture is a culture that tends to readily show emotions. A neutral culture tends to keep emotions controlled and subdued. There is no indication that Fatima is from an affective or neutral culture. 
SOURCE: EC:045 Discuss the impact of cultural and social environments on global trade
SOURCE: LAP-EC-045—On Top of the World (Impact of Culture on Global Trade)
2024 HS ICDC HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 2 

14. Cameron owns a laptop, a fish tank, and numerous trading cards. These possessions are all examples of 
A. capital goods.
B. equal distribution.
C. private property.
D. the profit motive.

14. C
Private property. Private property is anything of value that people own. It can be business or personal property. Other examples of private property include land, jewelry, buildings, and clothing. Capital goods are manufactured or constructed items that are used to produce goods and services. Equal distribution of goods and services is not possible, even in economic systems set up for that purpose. The profit motive is a desire to make a profit and is not related to Cameron owning various possessions. 
SOURCE: EC:009 Explain the concept of private enterprise
SOURCE: LAP-EC-909—People Power (The Private Enterprise System)
2024 HS ICDC HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 4 

27. A small town is a big tourist attraction due to its nearby amusement park. As a result, the town’s restaurants, hotels, and stores receive regular business and employ hundreds of locals. This is an example of how the hospitality and tourism industry 
A. damages infrastructure of small towns.
B. decreases local expenses.
C. positively impacts local economies.
D. hurts local communities.

27. C
Positively impacts local economies. The scenario is an example of how the hospitality and tourism industry positively impacts local economies because it brings regular business to the town's restaurants, hotels, and stores and employs hundreds of locals. The local businesses receiving regular customers and providing jobs to the community positively impact its economy. This is not an example of how the hospitality and tourism industry decreases local expenses, hurts local communities, or damages infrastructure of small towns. 
SOURCE: EC:136 Explain the relationship between the economy and hospitality and tourism
SOURCE: Ejim, E. (2023, November 5). What is the relationship between tourism and economic development?
Retrieved November 16, 2023, from https://www.smartcapitalmind.com/what-is-the-relationshipbetween-tourism-and-economic-development.htm 

36. RAX Corporation organizes its corporate branches by region, such as the Northwest Branch and the Southeast Branch. This is an example of a __________ structure. 
A. divisional
B. functional
C. matrix
D. scalar

36. A
Divisional. In a divisional structure, an organization is broken down into units; a common organization of these units is by territory, such Northwest, Southeast, Atlantic, Midwest, etc. A matrix structure combines traditional functional departments with cross-functional capabilities to encourage flexibility and teamwork. A functional structure organizes its units or departments based on their responsibilities or activities. A scalar structure is not a type of organizational structure. The scalar principle is a rule of organizational design, but it is not an actual variation of organizational design. 
SOURCE: EC:103 Explain the organizational design of businesses
SOURCE: LAP-EC-103—Designed to Work (Organizational Design of Business)

57. Corinne wants to attend a Coldplay concert, but they are not performing at any venue near her hometown. Therefore, the concert has no __________ utility to Corinne. 
A. possession
B. form
C. place
D. time

57. C
Place. Place utility is the usefulness provided by where a good or service is available for purchase. Since there is no Coldplay concert near Corinne, the concert has little place utility. Time utility exists when products are available at the time they are needed. Form utility occurs when the form of a good or service is altered to provide more satisfaction for the customer. Possession utility is created when ownership of a product is transferred from the seller to the person who will use the good or service. 
SOURCE: EC:004 Determine economic utilities created by business activities
SOURCE: LAP-EC-904—Use It (Economic Utility)

6. Countries record the flow of imports, exports, foreign aid, business investment, foreign investments, and money spent by tourists in order to determine their 
A. number of multinationals.
B. volume of production.
C. balance of payments.
D. need for trade missions.

6. C
Balance of payments. Balance of payments is the difference between all monies coming into a country and going out of a country. Nations need to have more money coming in than going out. The volume of production is recorded to calculate productivity levels. The number of multinationals would show how many businesses have facilities located abroad. A trade mission is a group of volunteer businesspeople sponsored by the government to inform exporters about foreign markets. 
SOURCE: EC:016 Explain the nature of global trade
SOURCE: LAP-EC-916—Beyond US (Global Trade)

12. The price of merchandise in a market economy is controlled by 
A. supply and demand.
B. consumers' knowledge.
C. business competition.
D. government decisions.

12. A
Supply and demand. Basically, prices are set in a market economy by the amount of a product available for sale (supply) and the amount that is desired by the market (demand). Governments set prices in command economies. Competition in a market economy affects price but doesn't control it. The knowledge consumers have about goods or services may affect their buying decisions but does not control prices. 
SOURCE: EC:007 Explain the types of economic systems
SOURCE: LAP-EC-907—Who's the Boss? (Economic Systems)

18. Which of the following is most likely to have a negative impact on a beach destination's economy: 
A. Floods and severe storm damage
B. Occasional airline delays
C. Fluctuations in gasoline prices
D. Hotel and restaurant construction

18. A
Floods and severe storm damage. Floods and storms can cause damage that shuts down lodging facilities, restaurants, tourist attractions, airports, and roads. When businesses are not operating and generating income, the local economy is negatively impacted. Occasional airline delays and minor fluctuations in gasoline prices are normal, so these factors do not typically negatively affect a community's economic health. Hotel and restaurant construction indicates that the local economy is growing. 
SOURCE: EC:136 Explain the relationship between the economy and hospitality and tourism
SOURCE: Hendry, T. (2018, November 7). Natural disaster readiness and recovery - How hotels weather the
storm. Retrieved September 26, 2023, from https://www.strategicsolutionpartners.com/naturaldisaster-readiness-recovery-hotels-weather-storm/ 

33. Carefully selecting goods or services to sell is an example of handling business risks by __________ the risk. 
A. retaining
B. preventing or controlling
C. transferring
D. avoiding

33. B
Preventing or controlling. Making careful, wise choices of goods or services to sell is one way management can prevent or control risks. Avoiding risk means not being exposed to risk at all. Transferring risk is passing the risk to someone else. Retaining risk is keeping it. 
SOURCE: EC:011 Determine factors affecting business risk
SOURCE: LAP-EC-003—Lose, Win, or Draw (Business Risk)
HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 8 

39. Which of the following is an important benefit businesses offer to their local communities: 
A. Decreasing competition
B. Increasing tax rates
C. Running community affairs
D. Creating jobs

39. D
Creating jobs. Increased employment in a community results in an increased local tax base. A larger tax base increases a community's service offerings to residents. Also, merchants will benefit from the increased spending power of citizens who work and, thereby, encourage competition for their consumer dollars. Tax rates will not usually be increased because of businesses. Businesses may participate in, but do not usually run, community affairs. 
SOURCE: EC:070 Explain the role of business in society
SOURCE: LAP-EC-070—Business Connections (Business and Society)

53. Which of the following activities demonstrates human resources management: 
A. The business gives its preferred customers a special discount.
B. The business acts on new information about a competitor.
C. The business includes top-level managers in long-term planning.
D. The business takes care of the responsibilities associated with having employees.

53. D
The business takes care of the responsibilities associated with having employees. Human resources management involves taking care of the responsibilities associated with having employees. Giving preferred customers a special discount is part of marketing. Including top-level managers in long-term planning is part of strategic management. And, acting on new information about a competitor can be marketing and/or operations. 
SOURCE: EC:071 Describe types of business activities
SOURCE: LAP-EC-071—Strictly Business (Business Activities)

Marketing 2024 Exams

33. What is the most important economic resource? 
A. People
B. Energy
C. Minerals
D. Equipment

33. A
People. Human resources, people, are the most important economic resource because they combine the other resources to produce goods and services. Without the work of people, land would not be used to grow crops, roads would not be built, and equipment would not be used to manufacture goods. Minerals and energy are natural resources. Equipment is capital goods. 
SOURCE: EC:003 Explain the concept of economic resources
SOURCE: LAP-EC-903—Be Resourceful (Economic Resources)

34. Bread for a family would best be classified as a(n) __________ product. 
A. installation
B. shopping
C. convenience
D. specialty

34. C
Convenience. A convenience good or service is a consumer product purchased quickly and without much thought or effort. It may be a staple item, such as bread, or an impulse item. When buying shopping goods and services, consumers compare products and stores by "shopping around" to get the best quality, price, or service. Specialty goods and services are items that have special or unique characteristics that customers are willing to exert special efforts to obtain. Installation is a category of industrial goods and services. 
SOURCE: EC:002 Distinguish between economic goods and services
SOURCE: LAP-EC-902—Get the Goods on Goods and Services (Economic Goods and Services)
MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 9 

57. Omar plans to open a golf shop in Florida because he thinks he can make a lot of money from the shop. Omar's decision is based on 
A. his desire to move.
B. the Florida climate.
C. his knowledge of golf.
D. the profit motive.

57. D
The profit motive. The main reason individuals are willing to assume the risks involved in business ventures is the hope of making a profit. This is the motivation for entering business which is called the profit motive. The situation does not describe Omar's desire to move or his knowledge of golf. It also does not refer to the climate. 
SOURCE: EC:010 Identify factors affecting a business's profit
SOURCE: LAP-EC-910—Risk Rewarded (Factors Affecting Profit)

67. Unethical business practices may lower a company's stock prices because 
A. investors prefer to invest in companies they perceive as ethical.
B. employees resign from unethical companies.
C. the government fines unethical companies.
D. unethical companies usually go bankrupt.

67. A
Investors prefer to invest in companies they perceive as ethical. Unethical business practices may lower a company's stock prices because investors prefer to invest in companies they perceive as ethical. When a company loses investors and has a negative public image, its stock prices will suffer. The government does not always fine unethical companies. Employees resigning from an unethical company will not necessarily affect its stock prices. Unethical companies sometimes go bankrupt, but not always. 
SOURCE: EC:106 Explain the nature of business ethics
SOURCE: LAP-EC-106—On the Up and Up (Business Ethics)

73. Charlie's family could not afford to pay for his college tuition, so when he graduated high school, he was not able to get a job that paid more than minimum wage. Val's family, on the other hand, is wealthy and paid for her to attend college. She was able to earn a degree and get a well-paying job. This is an example of 
A. freedom in the marketplace.
B. supply and demand.
C. a weakness of the private enterprise system.
D. limited government control in the private enterprise system.

73. C
A weakness of the private enterprise system. Although private enterprise systems are economically productive, they do have some negative aspects. One of these is that property and income are not equally distributed. The private enterprise system does not always make it easy for people to increase their income, especially if they do not have access to higher education, training, and skills. Charlie's family does not have the money to pay for him to go to college, so it was difficult for him to improve his financial standing. Val, on the other hand, was born into a family with wealth, so it was easier for her to increase her income through education. This is not an example of supply and demand, limited government control in the private enterprise system, or freedom in the marketplace. 
SOURCE: EC:009 Explain the concept of private enterprise
SOURCE: LAP-EC-015—People Power (The Private Enterprise System)

77. Jeremy has $15,000 to spend on a new car. He found a car that cost $14,500, but he did not think the car was worth more than $12,000. The dealer told Jeremy that he has not been able to sell this model because other customers have expressed the same opinion as Jeremy. Does demand for this car exist? 
A. Yes, because consumers like the car but don't buy it.
B. No, because consumers are not willing to pay the price being asked for this car.
C. Yes, because consumers think the car is worth $12,000.
D. No, because consumers do not have the buying power to purchase this car.

77. B
No, because consumers are not willing to pay the price being asked for this car. In order for demand to exist, consumers must desire the product, have the buying power, and be willing to exchange their money for the product. Consumers do have a desire for the car and the buying power to purchase it, but they are not willing to pay the price. As a result, there is no demand for this car. 
SOURCE: EC:005 Explain the principles of supply and demand
SOURCE: LAP-EC-011—It's the Law (Supply and Demand)

1. Deion is part of the shipping and receiving department for a retail store. He and his colleagues get along well, as they take lunch together every day and sometimes go to dinner after work. Deion and his colleagues are considered a(n) 
A. committee.
B. collectivist society.
C. subculture.
D. organizational culture.

1. C
Subculture. Deion and his colleagues are considered a subculture—a secondary group within a dominant organizational culture. An organizational culture refers to the customs, traditions, and habits of employees working together at a particular firm. Simply put, an organizational culture is the overall culture of the entire company, while a subculture is a smaller culture within that organizational culture. A collectivist society is a society in which people are integrated into strong, loyal groups, such as extended families. Although a collectivist society strongly relies on groups, it is not the term used within organizations. A committee is an appointed group of people that is dedicated to a specific matter. There is no indication that Deion and his colleagues are members of a committee. 
SOURCE: EC:045 Discuss the impact of cultural and social environments on global trade
SOURCE: LAP-EC-045—On Top of the World (Impact of Culture on Global Trade)

29. Which of the following is an example of a seller’s market: 
A. There are many vacant houses in a new neighborhood.
B. A caterer made too many cupcakes for a wedding.
C. When gas prices rise, people still purchase the same amount.
D. People will pay hundreds above face value for concert tickets.

29. D
People will pay hundreds above face value for concert tickets. A seller’s market exists when the quantity demanded is much greater than the quantity supplied, prices are higher, and the demand is so great that consumers will buy regardless of high prices. This is the case when people are so eager to get tickets to a concert that they will pay much more than face value. Vacant houses in a neighborhood indicate a buyer’s market. The amount of gas people purchase in relation to prices is an example of inelastic demand. A caterer that makes too many cupcakes for a wedding is an example of a buyer’s market. 
SOURCE: EC:005 Explain the principles of supply and demand
SOURCE: LAP-EC-011—It’s the Law (Supply and Demand)

51. Which of the following would receive the most utility from a lawn mower: 
A. Movie theater
B. Clothing retailer
C. Furniture store
D. Landscaping business

51. D
Landscaping business. Most landscaping businesses perform various yard maintenance tasks that would require a lawn mower and would therefore receive the most utility from owning a lawn mower. Most movie theaters, clothing retailers, and furniture stores do not offer landscaping or yardwork services; therefore, it would not be useful for those businesses to own lawn mowers. 
SOURCE: EC:004 Determine economic utilities created by business activities
SOURCE: LAP-EC-904—Use It (Economic Utility)

63. To maximize efficiency, Murray assigns his employees specific roles and asks them to become experts in that role. This is an example of 
A. job specialization.
B. market segmentation.
C. unity of command.
D. the scalar principle.

63. A
Job specialization. Job specialization is a type of division of labor where employees specialize in certain tasks in order to perform their jobs more efficiently. Since each of Murray’s employees are becoming experts in specific roles, they are specializing. Market segmentation is the division of a market into smaller subgroups. The scalar principle refers to creating authority that flows in a clear, continuous line. The principle of unity of command states that no employee should have to report to more than one manager or supervisor. While Murray’s business may demonstrate the scalar principle or unity of command, they are not apparent in this example. 
SOURCE: EC:103 Explain the organizational design of businesses
SOURCE: LAP-EC-103—Designed to Work (Organizational Design of Business)

40. What are producers most likely to do if they decide their incomes are inadequate? 
A. Continue to buy more resources
B. Choose not to make goods and services
C. Continue to increase production
D. Choose not to supply needed resources

40. B
Choose not to make goods and services. Producers must receive enough income so that they are able to continue making or providing goods and services. If they decide that their incomes are inadequate, they may choose not to make goods and services, and production would cease. If their incomes are inadequate, producers probably would not buy more resources or continue to increase production. Resource owners, not producers, supply needed resources. 
SOURCE: EC:001 Describe the concepts of economics and economic activities
SOURCE: LAP-EC-901--Are You Satisfied? (Economics and Economic Activities)
MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 10 

52. A common goal shared by labor and management is to 
A. establish a labor organization.
B. keep the business operating smoothly and effectively.
C. increase the number of fringe benefits provided to employees.
D. pay workers maximum wages.

52. B
Keep the business operating smoothly and effectively. If a business is successful, workers have a better chance of getting higher wages and better working conditions. In addition, management has a better chance of increasing the business's profits. Workers are responsible for establishing labor unions to strengthen their bargaining power with management. Obtaining more fringe benefits and high wages for employees is one of the main purposes of labor unions. 
SOURCE: EC:015 Explain the concept of organized labor and business
SOURCE: LAP-EC-915--Get United (Organized Labor)

56. If a bank doubles its interest rates on loans, the demand for money will 
A. decrease.
B. remain the same.
C. continue to increase.
D. double.

56. A
Decrease. The higher interest rate will make it more expensive to borrow money, so fewer borrowers will be seeking loans while interest rates are high. The demand for money will not double or continue to increase. It will be affected so it cannot remain the same. 
SOURCE: EC:084 Explain the economic impact of interest-rate fluctuations
SOURCE: Kramer, L. (2023, August 14). How do governments fight inflation? Retrieved September 18, 2023,
from https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/111314/what-methods-can-government-usecontrol-inflation.asp 

85. Identify the type of product utility being described in the following situation: A retail store decides to locate in a suburban shopping center. 
A. Possession
B. Place
C. Time
D. Form

85. B
Place. The store is making goods and services available at the place (location) they are wanted or needed by consumers. Time utility is making products available at the time they are wanted or needed by consumers. Form utility is altering or changing the form or shape of a product to make it more useful to the consumer. Possession utility is created when the ownership of a product is transferred from the seller to the person who will use it. 
SOURCE: EC:004 Determine economic utilities created by business activities
SOURCE: LAP-EC-013--Use It (Economic Utility)
MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 20 

89. Businesses are being socially responsible to their customers when they 
A. provide safe working environments.
B. contribute to community causes.
C. offer employees job training.
D. test the safety of their products.

89. D
products. If businesses fail to be sensitive to the well-being of their product users, the businesses will probably fail. Providing safe working environments and offering job training are ways businesses can be socially responsible to their employees. Contributing to community causes demonstrates social responsibility toward the community. 
SOURCE: EC:070 Explain the role of business in society
SOURCE: LAP-EC-070--Business Connections (Business and Society)
MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 21 

