6. Constructive criticism is advice that is 
A. irrelevant and not intended to be taken seriously.
B. useful and intended to improve something.
C. personally offensive and usually uncalled for.
D. critical and intended to hurt someone's feelings.

6. B
Useful and intended to improve something. Constructive criticism, advice that is useful and intended to help or improve something, is an excellent tool for providing feedback and inspiration in a positive manner. Constructive criticism is actionable and relevant to the individual's performance. It is not intended to hurt someone's feelings, and it should never be irrelevant or personally offensive. 
SOURCE: EI:133 Inspire others
SOURCE: LAP-EI-133—A Force for Good (Inspiring Others)

8. Having a victim mentality means you believe 
A. you are responsible for your decisions and actions.
B. everyone is a victim in one way or another.
C. you are controlled by the people and situations around you.
D. it is easy to get along with other people.

8. C
You are controlled by the people and situations around you. Having a victim mentality means you believe you are controlled by the people and situations around you, instead of being responsible for your own decisions and actions. You may or may not believe that everyone is a victim in one way or another or that it is easy to get along with other people. 
SOURCE: EI:075 Take responsibility for decisions and actions
SOURCE: LAP-EI-075—It's Up to You (Taking Responsibility for Decisions and Actions)

13. As a team member, should you try to encourage others on the team? 
A. No, this isn't part of your role as a team member.
B. No, management should encourage the team members.
C. Yes, this will help your fellow team members.
D. Yes, share praise you receive for your own work.

13. C
Yes, this will help your fellow team members. You should express your support for other members of the team whenever it is appropriate. This helps them and ensures your place on the team. It is also part of your role as a cooperative team member. It would be inappropriate to share praise you receive for your own work as an individual. Management should encourage the team, but fellow team members should also encourage each other by giving praise for others' good ideas and hard work. 
SOURCE: EI:045 Participate as a team member
SOURCE: LAP-EI-045—Team Up (Participating as a Team Member)

21. Jamison is ignorant of his new classmate's culture. In other words, Jamison is 
A. individualist.
B. ethnocentric.
C. unintelligent.
D. uninformed.

21. D
Uninformed. Saying that a person is ignorant just means they lack knowledge or information about something. Because Jamison is ignorant of his new classmate's culture, he is uninformed. If someone is ignorant, it does not mean they are unintelligent. Being ethnocentric means you believe your own culture is naturally better than others. Being individualistic means placing an emphasis on independent work and accomplishments. Jamison does not demonstrate ethnocentrism or individualism in this example. 
SOURCE: EI:033 Exhibit cultural sensitivity
SOURCE: LAP-EI-033—Getting to Know You (Cultural Sensitivity)

35. When Raquel gives Emil feedback, she's sure to focus on what will help Emil improve. Although she tells Emil what he's doing wrong, she also explains how to correct the behavior and perform better the next time. Raquel is using 
A. open-ended questioning.
B. constructive criticism.
C. negative feedback.
D. nonverbal communication.

35. B
Constructive criticism. Constructive criticism is information that is designed to help the coachee improve. When Raquel gives constructive criticism, she tells Emil what he's doing wrong, but she also explains how to correct the behavior and perform better the next time. Nonverbal communication uses body language instead of words or to support words. Open-ended questions require more than a simple “yes” or “no” answer. Raquel should not use negative feedback. 
SOURCE: EI:041 Coach others
SOURCE: LAP-EI-041—Bring Out the Best (Coaching Others)

37. Which of the following is true of self-confidence: 
A. It cannot be attained unless you are born with it.
B. It often offends or annoys other people.
C. It typically involves bragging.
D. It inspires confidence in friends and coworkers.

37. D
It inspires confidence in friends and coworkers. People with self-confidence inspire confidence in others, including their coworkers and friends. When you are confident, others believe in you. Although it can take time and effort to cultivate, anyone is capable of building their self-confidence. Self-confidence on its own does not offend or annoy people, and it should not involve bragging. If someone is annoying or offending others with their self-confidence, they may be overconfident. 
SOURCE: EI:023 Exhibit self-confidence
SOURCE: Perry, E. (2023, March 14). Build real self-confidence: These tips get beneath the surface. Retrieved
August 8, 2023, from https://www.betterup.com/blog/how-to-build-confidence 

42. Visualizing yourself as you would like to be is a technique that 
A. does not work well.
B. is seldom rewarding.
C. is quick and easy to learn.
D. takes time and practice.

42. D
Takes time and practice. Visualization is the practice of imagining yourself in possession of a present or desired strength. It is not always learned quickly or easily, but it does work well and can be very rewarding. 
SOURCE: EI:016 Explain the concept of self-esteem
SOURCE: Moe, K. (2021, June 4). 5 visualization techniques to help you reach your goals. Retrieved August 8,
2023, from https://www.betterup.com/blog/visualization 

51. Presley knows when she hears construction noise while she is trying to work, she becomes stressed and irritable. She decides to bring headphones to work to block out the noise. Presley is 
A. exhibiting integrity.
B. developing self-control.
C. showing initiative.
D. behaving unethically.

51. B
Developing self-control. Self-control is the ability to manage your feelings, words, and actions. One step in developing self-control is identifying and avoiding triggers that cause you to lose control. Presley knows she could lose control when she is irritated by construction noise. She attempts to avoid the trigger of her stress by wearing headphones, which helps her to maintain self-control. Presley is not showing initiative, behaving unethically, or exhibiting integrity in this situation. 
SOURCE: EI:025 Demonstrate self-control
SOURCE: LAP-EI-014—Control Yourself! (Demonstrating Self-Control)

52. The act of reflecting on and processing information is often referred to as 
A. mental fitness.
B. objective research.
C. compulsive thought.
D. critical thinking.

52. D
Critical thinking. The act of reflecting on and processing information is often referred to as critical thinking. Critical thinking is important because it allows you to form your own opinions and beliefs on issues. Reflecting on and processing information is not referred to as objective research, compulsive thought, or mental fitness. 
SOURCE: EI:136 Consider conflicting viewpoints
SOURCE: LAP-EI-136—Pick a Side (Considering Conflicting Viewpoints)

54. Smiling is an example of 
A. verbal communication.
B. eye contact.
C. nonverbal communication.
D. gesturing.

54. C
Nonverbal communication. Smiling is an example of nonverbal communication. Nonverbal communication is the exchange of information without the use of words, including body language (such as smiling), eye contact, and gestures. Verbal communication is the exchange of information through the use of words, including writing and speech. 
SOURCE: EI:007 Explain the nature of effective communications
SOURCE: LAP-EI-140—More Than Just Talk (Effective Communication)

64. Once you have determined your personal vision, you should consult it when 
A. your younger sibling is struggling to choose a career path.
B. you are unsure about what to buy at the grocery store.
C. your friend needs help deciding which college to attend.
D. you are faced with a crossroads or a new decision in life.

64. D
You are faced with a crossroads or a new decision in life. Your personal vision can act as a guidebook for your life, helping you make decisions when you are faced with difficult choices. It cannot, however, help your friend choose a college or your sibling choose a career path—your vision is only useful to you. Grocery shopping is not significant enough to consult your personal vision. 
SOURCE: EI:063 Determine personal vision
SOURCE: LAP-EI-063—Picture This! (Determining Personal Vision)

66. Which of the following is a behavior of an achievement-oriented leader: 
A. Withholding feedback
B. Allowing followers to take moderate risks
C. Not allowing followers to take responsibility
D. Setting easy goals

66. B
Allowing followers to take moderate risks. Achievement-oriented leaders allow their followers to take moderate risks. This can lead to greater accomplishments for the team, as well as more confidence for the individuals. Achievement-oriented leaders set challenging goals for their followers, not easy goals. They also provide feedback and expect their followers to take responsibility. 
SOURCE: EI:027 Develop an achievement orientation
SOURCE: LAP-EI-027—High Hopes (Developing an Achievement Orientation)

75. Leadership is especially important at the beginning of a business because 
A. businesses cannot afford to pay employees.
B. startup failure rates are high.
C. every company must have a president.
D. only certain types of people can be leaders.

75. B
Startup failure rates are high. Leadership is especially important at the beginning of a business because startup failure rates are high. A strong leader with a vision for the future, however, can help a new business weather the early storms and frustrations and stay on track for future success. Startup businesses will still pay employees, and not every company necessarily needs to have a president. Anyone with the desire can learn to be a leader. 
SOURCE: EI:009 Explain the concept of leadership
SOURCE: LAP-EI-909—Lead the Way (Concept of Leadership)
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 17 

77. A major part of being responsible means knowing how to act 
A. in government buildings.
B. at a professional sporting event.
C. in a job interview.
D. in different contexts and situations.

77. D
In different contexts and situations. A major part of being responsible means knowing how to act in different contexts and situations. It may be a job interview, a professional sporting event, a trip to a government building, etc., but the main idea of responsibility is to be able to adapt your behavior to the specific setting and situation. 
SOURCE: EI:021 Demonstrate responsible behavior
SOURCE: LAP-EI-021—Make the Honor Role (Acting Responsibly)

81. Jhenae just realized she failed to do an important and difficult task her boss had assigned to her. The task needs to be completed by tomorrow morning. What should Jhenae do to show she has initiative? 
A. Ask her boss to extend the deadline
B. Ask her teammates to help complete it
C. Complete what she can before her work shift is over
D. Work late to complete it on time

81. D
Work late to complete it on time. Working late shows that Jhenae has initiative because she is willing to work hard to accomplish her assigned work. If Jhenae leaves the work unfinished, asks for an extended deadline, or asks her teammates to help, she will show a lack of initiative by not accepting personal responsibility for completing her assignment on time. 
SOURCE: EI:024 Demonstrate initiative
SOURCE: LAP-EI-240—Hustle! (Taking Initiative at Work)

89. Thor's supervisor provides only general guidance, avoids giving specific or detailed directions, and wants employees to function independently. What leadership style is the supervisor following? 
A. Authoritarian
B. Democratic
C. Assertive
D. Laissez-faire

89. D
Laissez-faire. Laissez-faire leaders exercise little or no control over their subordinates. Democratic leaders seek input from employees and encourage them to participate in planning and decision-making. They tend to share authority with their subordinates. Authoritarians enjoy being in command. They rely almost completely upon their own judgment and give very specific orders and instructions to employees. Assertive is not a style of leadership. 
SOURCE: EI:037 Foster positive working relationships
SOURCE: LAP-EI-037—Can You Relate? (Fostering Positive Working Relationships)
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 20 

92. When Trina's sales team won the company-wide competition, she was sure to share the credit with all her team members. Trina is demonstrating that she is 
A. consistent.
B. open-minded.
C. generous.
D. impartial.

92. C
Generous. Those who are fair to others share with everyone. They do not allow their own selfishness to outweigh their desire to give equally to those who deserve it. In this case, Trina is being generous by sharing the credit for a job well done with everyone on her team rather than keeping all the praise for herself. In this situation, Trina is not demonstrating open-mindedness, consistency, or impartiality. 
SOURCE: EI:127 Demonstrate fairness
SOURCE: LAP-EI-127—Fair or Foul? (Demonstrating Fairness)

93. When stereotypes and prejudice are put into action, the result is 
A. unconscious bias.
B. racism.
C. bias.
D. discrimination.

93. D
Discrimination. Discrimination is unfair treatment of a person or a group based on the person's or group's characteristics. It is the action that results from stereotypes and prejudices. Stereotypes and prejudice put into action are not bias or unconscious bias. Finally, racism is one form of discrimination, but stereotypes and prejudice can manifest themselves in other forms of discrimination as well. 
SOURCE: EI:017 Recognize and overcome personal biases and stereotypes
SOURCE: LAP-EI-917—Don't Jump to Conclusions! (Recognizing and Overcoming Personal Biases and
Stereotypes) 

95. If you fear change, the best way for you to cope with that fear is to 
A. face your fear head-on.
B. keep your fear hidden.
C. pretend your fear doesn't exist.
D. hope your fear will go away.

95. A
Face your fear head-on. If you fear change, acknowledge that fact, and work to overcome it. Face the change you fear head-on, and deal with it one step at a time. Pretending that your fear doesn't exist, hoping it will go away, or keeping it hidden are passive approaches that will not help you overcome your fear. 
SOURCE: EI:026 Adjust to change
SOURCE: Splitter, J. (2023, August 8). How to get better at facing your fears, according to science. Retrieved
August 8, 2023, from https://www.everydayhealth.com/emotional-health/how-to-get-better-at-facingyour-fears-according-to-science/ 

96. Qualified employees who behave unethically on the job may harm themselves by being 
A. rotated to similar positions.
B. sent to a training program.
C. held legally responsible.
D. passed over for promotions.

96. D
Passed over for promotions. Most businesses try to act in an ethical manner, and they expect their employees to also behave ethically. Employees who behave unethically on the job may harm themselves by being passed over for promotions even if they are well qualified. Coworkers and supervisors often notice other employees' unethical behavior and may lose respect for them because of it. These employees may be passed over for promotions because their supervisors do not trust them to do the right thing, particularly in higher level positions that give them more authority. Employees are not harmed by attending training programs or being rotated to similar positions. Unethical behavior is not necessarily illegal. 
SOURCE: EI:004 Demonstrate ethical work habits
SOURCE: LAP-EI-004—Work Right (Demonstrating Ethical Work Habits)

97. When employees demonstrate adaptability, they are able to be 
A. honest.
B. creative.
C. flexible.
D. aggressive.

97. C
Flexible. Flexibility is the ability to adapt to changes as they occur. When employees are demonstrating adaptability, they are able to be flexible and adjust to changing conditions. When employees demonstrate adaptability, they are not necessarily being aggressive, honest, or creative. 
SOURCE: EI:006 Demonstrate adaptability
SOURCE: LAP-EI-006—Go With the Flow (Demonstrating Adaptability)

5. An effective way to evaluate a risk is to determine 
A. inventory and probability.
B. objections and inventory.
C. probability and magnitude.
D. magnitude and body language.

5. C
Probability and magnitude. Probability is the likelihood of an event occurring while magnitude is the seriousness or extent of an event’s impact. Combining these two factors can help someone analyze possible risks when making a decision. Body language includes gestures, facial expressions, or other nonverbal forms of communication. Body language is rarely an effective way to evaluate risk. Inventory is the stock of goods a business possesses and is not directly related to determining risk. 
SOURCE: EI:091 Assess risks of personal decisions
SOURCE: LAP-EI-091—Worth the Risk (Assessing Risks of Personal Decisions)
2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 2 

10. When Keisha’s coworker receives an important personal call at his desk, she takes a walk to refill her water bottle. Keisha is illustrating how to 
A. avoid gossip.
B. be tactful.
C. respect privacy.
D. be humble.

10. C
Respect privacy. To demonstrate courtesy and respect toward others on her work team, Keisha doesn’t eavesdrop on personal conversations or telephone calls. She respects her coworker’s privacy. Being humble refers to not having an arrogant attitude. Avoiding gossip means not spreading rumors or misinformation about others. Being tactful means choosing language wisely. 
SOURCE: EI:037 Foster positive working relationships
SOURCE: LAP-EI-037—Can You Relate? (Fostering Positive Working Relationships)
2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 3 

13. Which of the following is most likely to motivate team members to engage in a shared vision: 
A. Criticism
B. Creativity
C. Decision-making
D. Positive reinforcement

13. D
Positive reinforcement. Teammates who treat each other with respect and encouragement are likely to be more engaged in a shared vision. Positivity keeps people going when challenges arise. Criticism is not as likely to motivate engagement in a shared vision. Creativity is often the result of a shared vision, rather than a motivation for it. Finally, stronger decision-making is also a result of a shared vision, rather than a motivation for it. 
SOURCE: EI:060 Enlist others in working toward a shared vision
SOURCE: LAP-EI-060—Vision Quest (Enlisting Others in Vision)

15. If you discover your values and behavior do not match up, you should 
A. adjust your values to include all behaviors.
B. make a radical change to quickly adjust course.
C. wait to observe how this discovery impacts your life.
D. take small, manageable steps to close the gap.

15. D
Take small, manageable steps to close the gap. If you discover your values and behavior do not match up, you should take small, manageable steps to close the gap. Try to set a goal for yourself, such as taking one action per week that would support your personal values. You should not radically change your life to quickly adjust course. You should adjust your behavior instead of changing your values to include everything. It’s better to take small steps than to wait to observe how this impacts your life. 
SOURCE: EI:126 Assess personal behavior and values
SOURCE: LAP-EI-126—Assess Yourself (Assessing Your Personal Behavior and Values)

33. When is it easiest to overlook the need to improve or change? 
A. When you are experiencing success
B. When you use critical thinking skills
C. When you are in a leadership position
D. When you are challenging the status quo

33. A
When you are experiencing success. When things are going well, change doesn’t always seem necessary. This can lead to missed opportunities. If you are challenging the status quo, you have likely already identified a need to improve or change. Being in a leadership position does not necessarily mean you will overlook the need for change or improvement. In fact, a quality of a good leader is having the courage to suggest or implement change. When you are using critical thinking skills, you would most likely notice the need for improvement or change rather than overlook it. 
SOURCE: EI:134 Challenge the status quo
SOURCE: LAP-EI-134—Unfollow the Crowd (Challenging the Status Quo)

34. When Peter criticized his employees for using their company laptops to play games and browse social media, they were surprised. They did not know that their behavior was wrong. Peter should have 
A. communicated the rules more clearly.
B. enforced stricter punishments.
C. relaxed the company computer policy.
D. hired more ethical employees.

34. A
Communicated the rules more clearly. Ethics aren’t always black and white, and sometimes it can be challenging to know what to do or what is expected. Peter should have communicated his expectations and clearly explained how employees were supposed to use their company laptops. Enforcing stricter punishments and relaxing the computer policies would not necessarily help in this situation. There is no indication that Peter needs to hire more ethical employees. His current employees are not necessarily unethical; rather, they did not understand how to behave ethically due to a lack of communication. 
SOURCE: EI:132 Model ethical behavior
SOURCE: LAP-EI-132—Practice What You Preach (Modeling Ethical Behavior)
2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 8 

42. Ian and his team recently completed a six-month-long project. As a result, Ian invites the group to go celebrate at a nearby restaurant after work. This illustrates which step in developing an achievement orientation? 
A. Be a leader and encourage feedback
B. Be patient and persistent
C. Reward yourself for your accomplishments
D. Take a break to refresh your mind

42. C
Reward yourself for your accomplishments. By inviting his team members to celebrate at a nearby restaurant after work, Ian is rewarding himself and his team for finishing their six-month project. This will help Ian and his team to stay motivated and to continue working hard to achieve their goals. This does not necessarily demonstrate being a leader or being patient and persistent. Encouraging feedback and taking a break to refresh your mind are not steps in developing an achievement orientation. The five steps to developing an achievement orientation are: set goals, ask for feedback, be patient and persist, be a leader, and reward yourself for your accomplishments. 
SOURCE: EI:027 Develop an achievement orientation
SOURCE: LAP-EI-027—High Hopes (Developing an Achievement Orientation)

68. A helpful way to identify your strengths and weaknesses involves receiving __________ from others. 
A. compliments
B. self-esteem
C. feedback
D. compensation

68. C
Feedback. Feedback is evaluative information given to you about the things you say and do. When it comes to receiving feedback about your weaknesses, it may be a little tough to handle. Keep in mind that growth and development aren’t always easy but are necessary for success. Then, use the feedback to your advantage as you continue to assess your strengths and weaknesses. Receiving compensation is not a way to identify strengths and weaknesses. Compliments are nice, but they are not always helpful in assessing strengths and weaknesses. Self-esteem is not something you receive from someone else, but something that comes from you. 
SOURCE: EI:002 Assess personal strengths and weaknesses
SOURCE: LAP-EI-902—Assess for Success (Assessing Personal Strengths and Weaknesses)

71. Carmel is concerned for others’ welfare. In other words, Carmel is 
A. reliable.
B. persistent.
C. altruistic.
D. honest.

71. C
Altruistic. The principle of concern for others’ welfare is altruism. This means putting others’ interests before your own and making the effort to check in with others while working to contribute to their benefit. Persistence is the ability to continue working on a task or idea until the desired outcome is achieved. Being honest means being truthful. Reliability is being consistent and trustworthy. 
SOURCE: EI:131 Explain the nature of ethical leadership
SOURCE: LAP-EI-131—Be the Change (Nature of Ethical Leadership)
2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 16 

74. Rosemary always remembers to hold the door open for the person behind her, because she has learned the impact her small actions can have on others. What trait is Rosemary demonstrating? 
A. Acceptance
B. Sympathy
C. Empathy
D. Self-awareness

74. D
Self-awareness. Self-awareness is understanding the influence and effect you have on others. Self-aware people don’t make choices without considering the impact those choices will have on other people. Selfawareness can be demonstrated in small ways, such as holding the door open for the person behind you or cleaning the microwave after you use it. Empathy is the ability to relate to the feelings, thoughts, and experiences of other people. Sympathy is the ability to recognize another person’s feelings. Acceptance is the approval or tolerance of all people, regardless of their behavior or performance. 
SOURCE: EI:137 Assess long-term value and impact of actions on others
SOURCE: LAP-EI-137—Choose for the Future (Assessing the Long-Term Value and Impact of Actions on
Others) 

77. Which of the following is an example of an unexpected change: 
A. Your computer crashing
B. Starting a new job
C. Learning to drive a car
D. Graduating from high school

77. A
Your computer crashing. Like it or not, we all experience change. You expect—and maybe even look forward to—some changes in life, such as graduating from high school, learning to drive, or applying for and starting a new job. But some changes are unexpected: your computer crashing when you are on a tight deadline, or getting injured during a sporting event. 
SOURCE: EI:006 Demonstrate adaptability
SOURCE: LAP-EI-006—Go With the Flow (Demonstrating Adaptability)

78. Which of the following statements regarding power is true: 
A. Power does not follow a hierarchy.
B. Power follows a strict hierarchy.
C. Authority and power are the same thing.
D. People with power never have authority.

78. A
Power does not follow a hierarchy. Power can flow in any direction and does not follow a strict hierarchy. People with power often have authority as well – the formal or legal right to give orders and commands to others. Authority and power are not the same thing; power is the ability of an individual to influence the actions of other people, whereas authority is the formal or legal right to give orders and commands to others. 
SOURCE: EI:135 Use power appropriately
SOURCE: LAP-EI-135—Power Play (Using Power Appropriately)

84. Madilynn’s homeroom class is filled with students who possess many different backgrounds, beliefs, and ideas, which inspires Madilynn to embrace new ideas and discuss a variety of perspectives. This classroom possesses 
A. widespread objectivity.
B. personal fulfillment.
C. intellectual diversity.
D. cognitive imbalances.

84. C
Intellectual diversity. Intellectual diversity is an environment in which new and different ideas are embraced. These types of environments can help people succeed at work, school, and life. There is no indication that the classroom has cognitive imbalances or that the students have found personal fulfillment. Intellectual diversity does not necessarily mean that everyone will remain objective at all times. 
SOURCE: EI:136 Consider conflicting viewpoints
SOURCE: LAP-EI-136—Pick a Side (Considering Conflicting Viewpoints)
2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 19 

86. Which of the following statements regarding inspiration is true: 
A. You must be a CEO to inspire others.
B. Inspiration is rarely used by leaders.
C. Inspiring others requires a college degree.
D. Anyone can learn how to inspire others.

86. D
Anyone can learn how to inspire others. You don’t have to be a CEO or have a college degree to inspire others – anyone can learn how to serve as an inspiration. Inspiration is frequently used by leaders as a tool for bringing out the best in others. 
SOURCE: EI:133 Inspire others
SOURCE: LAP-EI-133 – A Force for Good (Inspiring Others)

90. Your manager welcomes feedback and urges employees to share new ideas. Which characteristic of open, honest communication are they demonstrating? 
A. Encouraging questions and suggestions
B. Allowing for conflict
C. Avoiding half-truths
D. Giving information people need

90. A
Encouraging questions and suggestions. Transparency doesn’t just go in one direction. A manager who values transparency will encourage their employees to ask questions and share new ideas. This scenario does not involve conflict. While giving people the information they need and avoiding half-truths are characteristics of open, honest communication, they are not directly highlighted in this scenario. 
SOURCE: EI:129 Foster open, honest communication
SOURCE: LAP-EI-129—Can We Talk? (Fostering Open, Honest Communication)

91. Which of the following is a benefit businesses experience from collaboration: 
A. Greater job satisfaction
B. Personal and professional growth
C. Increased retention of top talent
D. Better communities and relationships

91. C
Increased retention of top talent. Businesses with collaborative work environments can attract top talent and are more likely to retain it as well. High-performing individuals seek opportunities to engage with others and increase their knowledge and skills. When employees are engaged at work, they experience more job satisfaction and are likely to stay on board for the long term. Personal and professional growth, as well as greater job satisfaction, are benefits employees experience from collaboration. Better communities and relationships are societal benefits of collaboration. 
SOURCE: EI:130 Collaborate with others
SOURCE: LAP-EI-130—Genius Is a Team Sport (Collaborating With Others)

93. Which of the following would be an appropriate goal for someone with a personal vision that involves working to cure cancer: 
A. Attend religious seminary
B. Get accepted to medical school
C. Write a best-selling novel
D. Graduate from law school

93. B
Get accepted to medical school. Having a personal vision allows you to set goals that fully align with your ultimate ambitions, making seemingly tough decisions much easier. For example, if your personal vision involves working to cure cancer, an appropriate goal would be to get accepted to medical school. You wouldn’t make it your goal to get accepted to law school or religious seminary, because those goals do not align with your personal vision. Writing a best-selling novel also does not align with working to cure cancer. As you can see, having a personal vision ensures that you are spending your time and efforts on pursuits that are truly important to you. 
SOURCE: EI:063 Determine personal vision
SOURCE: LAP-EI-063—Picture This! (Determining Personal Vision)

94. Even though math is his most difficult subject and he wants to give up, Marco continues working through his trigonometry homework problems. Marco is being 
A. altruistic.
B. persistent.
C. transparent.
D. respectful.

94. B
Persistent. Even though he wants to give up, Marco continues working through his trigonometry homework problems—Marco is being persistent. Persistence is the ability to continue working on a task or idea until the desired outcome is achieved. Altruism is the principle of concern for others’ welfare. Respect is regard or esteem and involves honoring the rights, freedoms, views, and property of others. Transparency is the quality of being just as one seems and being open and truthful while communicating. 
SOURCE: EI:131 Explain the nature of ethical leadership
SOURCE: LAP-EI-131—Be the Change (Nature of Ethical Leadership)
2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 21 

99. Andrew received word from a colleague that their boss wants to meet with him one-on-one this afternoon. When asked what the meeting was about, the colleague didn't have any details. As a result, Andrew begins to feel nervous and starts to panic while thinking about all of the possible reasons for the meeting. What step can Andrew use to help him tolerate ambiguity in the moment? 
A. Focus on creativity
B. Assess risks
C. Stay calm and neutral
D. Ask questions

99. C
Stay calm and neutral. In this instance, Andrew should stay calm and neutral to help himself tolerate ambiguity in the moment. Keeping yourself in the right frame of mind is essential for tolerating ambiguity. Because Andrew was starting to feel nervous and panicky, he should take a moment to breathe deeply and relax. This will help him halt his negative thinking. Asking questions, focusing on creativity, and assessing risk won't necessarily help Andrew in this situation. 
SOURCE: EI:092 Develop tolerance for ambiguity
SOURCE: LAP-EI-092—Embrace the Unknown (Developing a Tolerance for Ambiguity)
2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 22 

4. A mission statement primarily deals with 
A. what you plan to do in the future.
B. what you are doing right now.
C. what you regret not doing in the past.
D. what you have done in the past.

4. B
What you are doing right now. A mission statement deals with what you are doing right now and how it is helping you achieve your personal vision. A mission statement does not reflect what you have done in the past or what you wish you had done in the past. While a mission statement does address the future, its primary focus is the present. 
SOURCE: EI:063 Determine personal vision
SOURCE: LAP-EI-063—Picture This! (Determining Personal Vision)

6. Employee recognition and approval is a form of __________ feedback. 
A. negative
B. positive
C. internal
D. critical

6. B
Positive. Feedback is evaluative information about you, your behavior, or the results of your behavior. It can be positive or negative in nature. Positive feedback involves praise (compliments, commendations, etc.) and tends to reinforce the behavior that it recognizes. Internal feedback comes from within yourself. Critical or negative feedback tends to make people want to change their behavior. 
SOURCE: EI:003 Explain the use of feedback for personal growth
SOURCE: LAP-EI-903—Grin and Bear It (Using Feedback for Personal Growth)

7. Standing very close to someone with whom you are talking can be an indication of __________ behavior. 
A. passive
B. assertive
C. aggressive
D. subversive

7. C
Aggressive. Aggressive behavior is conduct based on a willingness to ignore the rights of others and to take advantage of them to achieve personal goals. Aggressive behavior is sometimes called attack behavior. One form of attack behavior is called "in-your-face" behavior, and it involves an individual standing too close to another person when talking with them. Passive behavior is conduct in which people fail to exercise their rights and to respect their own needs. Assertive behavior is conduct based on respect for your own rights and for the rights of others. Subversive behavior is intended to undermine or overthrow some form of government. 
SOURCE: EI:008 Use appropriate assertiveness
SOURCE: LAP-EI-008—Assert Yourself (Assertiveness)

11. Interest and enthusiasm are very important parts of a(n) 
A. business cycle.
B. orderly environment.
C. positive attitude.
D. partnership agreement.

11. C
Positive attitude. Interest and enthusiasm are part of a positive attitude, which gives you a good outlook on life. Although you will still encounter frustrations and disappointments, you won't be kept down very long by them. Your interest in life and your enthusiasm will soon reassert themselves. Business cycles are periods of expansion and contraction in economic activities. An orderly, systematic environment can be obtained without interest and enthusiasm. A partnership agreement is a written agreement signed by business partners that specifies the terms of the partnership. 
SOURCE: EI:020 Demonstrate interest and enthusiasm
SOURCE: U.S. Department of Labor. (n.d.). Enthusiasm and attitude. Retrieved October 2, 2023, from
https://www.dol.gov/sites/dolgov/files/odep/topics/youth/softskills/enthusiasm.pdf 

18. To demonstrate adaptability, it is important to recognize that 
A. circumstances are always changing.
B. you can control the way others react.
C. fear of the unknown induces change.
D. it is always OK to stay in your comfort zone.

18. A
Circumstances are always changing. To be adaptable, you must first recognize that circumstances are always changing. When you recognize that change is inevitable, then you can relax and develop a mindset to "expect the unexpected," which will help you handle changes when they occur. Staying in your comfort zone and being fearful are barriers to adaptability. Although you can't control the way others react in a situation, you can control the way you react. 
SOURCE: EI:006 Demonstrate adaptability
SOURCE: LAP-EI-006—Go With the Flow (Demonstrating Adaptability)

22. One way to maintain a positive attitude is to 
A. focus on your own needs and ignore the needs of others.
B. share the good and bad of your life with others.
C. avoid sharing your feelings with others.
D. be critical of yourself when you make a mistake.

22. B
Share the good and bad of your life with others. Sharing your experiences with others helps you to understand them and to feel understood yourself. Focusing only on your needs, avoiding sharing, and being critical are all characteristics of people with a negative attitude. 
SOURCE: EI:019 Exhibit a positive attitude
SOURCE: LAP-EI-003—Opt for Optimism (Positive Attitude)

23. Which of the following statements depicts responsible behavior on the part of the employee: 
A. "I told my supervisor I would work on Friday nights, so I will be here Friday."
B. "I tried to handle that problem, but the customer became angry and walked out."
C. "I'm sure I understand my job duties, and I don't have to do that."
D. "I'm sorry the job didn't get done, but the other workers left early."

23. A
"I told my supervisor I would work on Friday nights, so I will be here Friday." Employees who do what they say they will do are demonstrating responsible behavior. Making excuses is not acceptable, and employees should assist each other. Supervisors should be consulted when there are problems with difficult customers. Employees should be willing to perform extra job duties in addition to their regular duties. 
SOURCE: EI:021 Demonstrate responsible behavior
SOURCE: LAP-EI-021—Make the Honor Role (Acting Responsibly)

28. Individuals can change from a negative to a positive attitude through the use of 
A. self-esteem.
B. self-control.
C. maladjustment.
D. aggressiveness.

28. B
Self-control. Self-control is the ability to manage your feelings, words, and actions. It can help individuals eliminate undesirable attitudes from their lives. Aggressiveness is an attitude based on feelings of aggression. Self-esteem is the way you feel about yourself. Maladjustment is failure to adapt behavior successfully to a particular set of circumstances. 
SOURCE: EI:025 Demonstrate self-control
SOURCE: LAP-EI-014—Control Yourself! (Demonstrating Self-Control)
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 7 

32. Mitali always does what she says she's going to do. Her coachees can count on her because she is 
A. dependable.
B. flexible.
C. enthusiastic.
D. humble.

32. A
Dependable. Dependability means you're reliable. In other words, you do what you say you will do. Humility is a lack of pride. Flexibility is the ability to adapt to changes as they occur. Enthusiasm is intense interest or excitement. 
SOURCE: EI:041 Coach others
SOURCE: LAP-EI-041—Bring Out the Best (Coaching Others)

33. Leadership is important when things are going well for a business because 
A. team members usually embrace change.
B. employees become discouraged in times of crisis.
C. people don't need role models.
D. leaders determine the next step for the organization.

33. D
Leaders determine the next step for the organization. Leadership is important when things are going well for a business because leaders determine the next step for the organization. Often, people within an organization are resistant to change or don't see the need for it. Leaders make the right changes happen. Employees do become discouraged during times of crisis, but this does not relate to leadership when things are going well for a business. People look for and need leaders as role models in many different areas of life. 
SOURCE: EI:009 Explain the concept of leadership
SOURCE: LAP-EI-909—Lead the Way (Concept of Leadership)
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 8 

36. The question “Who is experiencing the conflict?” can provide insight about the 
A. other person's personality.
B. type of disagreement that is occurring.
C. core issue surrounding the disagreement.
D. importance of the relationship.

36. D
Importance of the relationship. Identifying who is involved in a conflict, such as a salesperson and a customer, provides insight about the nature of the relationship and its importance. Identifying who is involved in the conflict does not necessarily provide insight about personality, disagreement type, or the disagreement's core issue. 
SOURCE: EI:015 Use conflict-resolution skills
SOURCE: LAP-EI-915—Stop the Madness (Conflict Resolution)

48. An African American teenager worked in a Chinese restaurant operated by people of Asian ancestry. What difference between the teenager and the others is illustrated in this example? 
A. Religion
B. Race
C. Education
D. Personality

48. B
Race. Some people identify as a specific race or a combination of races. Religion, education, and personality are not differences that are illustrated in this example. 
SOURCE: EI:036 Treat others with dignity and respect
SOURCE: LAP-EI-036—Everyone's Worthy (Treating Others With Dignity and Respect)

49. Which of the following is an example of a receiver creating a barrier to communication: 
A. Courtland takes notes during a meeting.
B. Caleb uses “um” and “like” in his conversations.
C. Keisha texts her supervisor “2 sick 4 work, sry.”
D. Muriel ignores her roommate's text message.

49. D
Muriel ignores her roommate's text message. Receivers often make mistakes when communicating that can prevent the effective transmission of messages. Effective communication requires a two-way connection to work, and receivers create barriers to communication when they don't practice active listening, forget to complete the requested follow-up actions, and fail to respond to a written message. By ignoring her roommate's text message, Muriel is creating a barrier to communication. Caleb using “um” and “like” in his conversations and Keisha texting her supervisor using slang are examples of senders creating barriers to communication. Courtland taking notes during a meeting is an example of effective communication. 
SOURCE: EI:007 Explain the nature of effective communications
SOURCE: LAP-EI-140—More Than Just Talk (Effective Communication)

56. Which of the following is an example of an employee invading a coworker's privacy: 
A. John reads the email message on Suzanne's computer screen while she is away from her desk.
B. Christina quietly leaves the room and shuts the door when Paul receives a personal phone call.
C. Martha knocks on the door before entering the meeting room to tell Ryan that his client has arrived.
D. Kevin takes Sarah's stapler off her desk after she tells him it is OK to borrow it for a while.

56. A
John reads the email message on Suzanne's computer screen while she is away from her desk. Successful employees realize the importance of respecting others' privacy in the workplace. When employees respect others' privacy, they are likely to gain the trust and respect of coworkers and managers. Reading a coworker's email without permission is rude and an invasion of privacy. Leaving the room when another person receives a personal telephone call, knocking on the door before entering the room, and asking to borrow an item before taking it are actions that are respectful of others' privacy. 
SOURCE: EI:029 Respect the privacy of others
SOURCE: McQuerrey, L. (2018, June 29). How to show respect for colleagues. Retrieved October 2, 2023, from
https://work.chron.com/show-respect-colleagues-19096.html 

63. Going a day without eating desserts is an example of a(n) __________, whereas improving your health overall is an example of a(n) __________. 
A. short-term goal; long-term goal
B. obligation; commitment
C. long-term goal; short-term goal
D. commitment; obligation

63. A
Short-term goal; long-term goal. Goals can be short-term or long-term. Short-term goals take less than a year to achieve, whereas long-term goals take a year or more. Going one day without eating desserts is a short-term goal, whereas improving your health overall could take more than a year and is therefore a long-term goal. Both of these goals could be commitments or obligations. 
SOURCE: EI:077 Manage commitments in a timely manner
SOURCE: LAP-EI-077—Commit to It! (Managing Commitments in a Timely Manner)

67. Using your values as a guide for your behavior can help you make __________ decisions and act with __________. 
A. controversial; discretion
B. ethical; integrity
C. informed; disrespect
D. educated; goals in mind

67. B
Ethical; integrity. Knowing your values also helps you make ethical decisions and act with integrity. Since your values are what matter most to you, they can help you uphold your principles in difficult situations. You will be less tempted to act unethically if you have a strong sense of what is important to you. Using your values as a guide does not necessarily help you make educated, controversial, or informed decisions, nor does it help you act with goals in mind, discretion, or disrespect. 
SOURCE: EI:126 Assess personal behavior and values
SOURCE: LAP-EI-126—Assess Yourself (Assessing Your Personal Behavior and Values)

70. Which of the following is a true statement about emotional intelligence and leadership: 
A. Leaders need to be confident that what they are doing is acceptable.
B. Leaders learn to outlast business fads and trends.
C. Leaders are expected to take action after problems develop.
D. Leaders have to get along with a wide variety of people.

70. D
Leaders have to get along with a wide variety of people. Emotional intelligence and leadership overlap when it comes to proactive behavior, perseverance, positive working relationships, and confidence. To engage in positive working relationships, leaders have to get along with a wide variety of people, sometimes encouraging others and sometimes inspiring them. With proactive behavior, leaders are expected to take action before problems develop. With perseverance, leaders learn to outlast disappointment and fatigue. Learning to outlast business fads and trends is not a part of emotional intelligence, nor is it necessarily a part of leadership. Regarding confidence, leaders need to be confident that what they are doing and saying is right—not (merely) acceptable. 
SOURCE: EI:001 Describe the nature of emotional intelligence
SOURCE: LAP-EI-001—EQ and You (Emotional Intelligence)

72. Why is it important for individuals to assess their personal strengths and weaknesses? 
A. To be able to respond appropriately in a crisis
B. To be able to negotiate their contracts
C. To get the most bang for their buck
D. To improve their performance

72. D
To improve their performance. Each individual has personal strengths and weaknesses. Assessing strengths will allow an individual to build on those strengths. It is also important to assess weaknesses because those are areas that need improvement. For example, an individual might find that it will be necessary to improve their computer skills to improve performance and be considered for a promotion. It may be difficult to improve performance if individuals have not identified their personal strengths and weaknesses. Assessing personal strengths and weaknesses will not necessarily help individuals respond appropriately in a crisis, negotiate contracts, or get the most bang for their buck. 
SOURCE: EI:002 Assess personal strengths and weaknesses
SOURCE: LAP-EI-902—Assess for Success (Assessing Personal Strengths and Weaknesses)

84. Taking responsibility for your actions involves 
A. responding to criticism in a defensive manner.
B. letting others accept the blame for your mistakes.
C. admitting your mistakes.
D. justifying your errors.

84. C
Admitting your mistakes. Taking responsibility for your actions often involves admitting that you made a mistake and that you are willing to accept the consequences of your actions. Although it is difficult to admit your mistakes, taking responsibility for them indicates that you are an honest person, which is a trait that employers value. Letting others accept blame for your mistakes, justifying your errors, and responding to criticism in a defensive manner are not ways in which you take responsibility for your actions. 
SOURCE: EI:075 Take responsibility for decisions and actions
SOURCE: LAP-EI-075—It's Up to You (Taking Responsibility for Decisions and Actions)

87. Which type of decision is most likely to have a long-term impact on your life? 
A. Routine
B. Limited
C. Extensive
D. Simple

87. C
Extensive. An extensive decision is a big decision that affects many areas of your life and can have a long-term impact. Limited, routine, and simple decisions are not as likely to have long-term impacts. 
SOURCE: EI:091 Assess risks of personal decisions
SOURCE: LAP-EI-091—Worth the Risk (Assessing Risks of Personal Decisions)
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 20 

93. Madeline understands the importance of putting others first when it comes to building trust. Which of the following is she most likely to do: 
A. Communicate often and openly
B. Apologize for her mistakes
C. Keep confidential information private
D. Prioritize the needs of others

93. D
Prioritize the needs of others. You can't build trust in your relationships if you only care about yourself. That's why it's so important to prioritize the needs of others. This doesn't mean that you should completely ignore your own needs, but it does mean you must show empathy and think about how your actions can benefit other people. Apologizing for mistakes is part of taking responsibility for them. Keeping confidential information private and communicating often and openly are other techniques that can be used to build trust. 
SOURCE: EI:128 Build trust in relationships
SOURCE: LAP-EI-128—Trust in Me (Building Trust in Relationships)

95. Businesspeople who respect the unique customs and habits of their foreign customers are exhibiting 
A. communication skills.
B. language differences.
C. cultural sensitivity.
D. stereotypical behavior.

95. C
Cultural sensitivity. Culture is the set of customs, habits, and traditions of a particular group of people. The way that different people interact with one another is an expression of their culture. Businesspeople need to be sensitive to the fact that their foreign customers may have unique customs such as bowing when they greet rather than shaking hands. They should accept these customs and try to make their foreign customers feel comfortable. Businesspeople who behave in this manner are showing respect for other customs and habits and are exhibiting cultural sensitivity. Communication skills are abilities to express yourself clearly and simply. Stereotypical behavior involves acting in a manner that conforms to a set image. Language differences occur when people speak different languages. 
SOURCE: EI:033 Exhibit cultural sensitivity
SOURCE: LAP-EI-033—Getting To Know You (Cultural Sensitivity)

16. Lisa and Aaliyah are finishing a school project together. When Lisa asks Aaliyah what she thinks about her half of the project, Aaliyah tells her, "That looks good, but let me show you what else you could have done." Aaliyah's comments are an example of 
A. negative feedback.
B. constructive criticism.
C. internal feedback.
D. self-control.

16. B
Constructive criticism. Constructive criticism is evaluative information designed to help someone improve. Negative feedback is feedback involving criticism, a negative judgment about you or your behavior; it tends to make you want to change or modify your words or actions. Internal feedback is feedback that comes from within yourself. Self-control is the restraint of your feelings, words, and actions. 
SOURCE: EI:003 Explain the use of feedback for personal growth
SOURCE: LAP-EI-903—Grin and Bear It (Using Feedback for Personal Growth)

21. A culture of recognition can deepen relationships because giving someone recognition means 
A. paying them the ultimate compliment.
B. playing favorites with them.
C. valuing their success over your own.
D. ignoring all of their flaws and mistakes.

21. A
Paying them the ultimate compliment. Giving recognition to someone is like paying them the ultimate compliment—by recognizing that person, you show them that they are valued and respected, deepening your relationship. A culture of recognition does not mean that people are playing favorites, and it does not mean that people who give recognition value the success of others over their own. Giving recognition to someone does not mean that you must ignore all of that person's flaws and mistakes; rather, it means that you choose to focus on that person's successes and achievements. 
SOURCE: EI:014 Recognize/Reward others for their efforts and contributions
SOURCE: LAP-EI-141—Gimme Five! (Recognizing/Rewarding Others)

27. Building and maintaining political relationships within an organization is often beneficial because it often 
A. creates a conflict-free working environment.
B. helps employees and the company accomplish objectives.
C. prevents the competition from losing market share.
D. reduces the need to seek information from outside sources.

27. B
Helps employees and the company accomplish objectives. Employees build political relationships in business to influence others (e.g., coworkers, managers) to take a certain course of action. The ability to influence others requires the employee to develop negotiation and conflict resolution skills. For example, an employee may need help from another person who works in another department to complete a project or activity. If the employee has developed a positive relationship with the other person, they are more likely to get the other person to help complete the project, which helps the company achieve a business objective. A person who builds a positive reputation and who continually meets the company's objectives is more likely to be promoted, thereby achieving their career goals. A successful company is concerned with maintaining or increasing its own market share rather than protecting a competitor's market share. Successful businesses often need to obtain information from outside sources, which does not depend on the political relationships that develop within the company. 
SOURCE: EI:034 Explain the impact of political relationships within an organization
SOURCE: Wooll, M. (2021, October 29). How to navigate office politics no matter where you work. Retrieved
August 3, 2023, from https://www.betterup.com/blog/office-politics 

32. When you are able to respect and appreciate other people's unique viewpoints, you can 
A. work more efficiently at your job.
B. take on more responsibility at work.
C. have constructive dialogue with others.
D. expect people to take advantage of you.

32. C
Have constructive dialogue with others. An important component of effective communication is respect. When you are able to respect and appreciate other people's unique viewpoints, you can have constructive dialogue with people of all backgrounds. Being able to respect and appreciate other people's unique viewpoints does not necessarily allow you to take on more responsibility at work; however, the ability to handle diverse viewpoints is a valuable skill that can make you an attractive job applicant. Your ability to work efficiently is not related to your ability to appreciate other viewpoints. People will not take advantage of you when you respect and appreciate their opinions. Rather, they will most likely return the favor and respect and appreciate your own opinions. 
SOURCE: EI:136 Consider conflicting viewpoints
SOURCE: LAP-EI-136—Pick a Side (Considering Conflicting Viewpoints)
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 8 

58. A high level of self-esteem can help individuals to 
A. keep from getting angry.
B. cope with criticism.
C. prevent problems.
D. avoid disappointments.

58. B
Cope with criticism. When self-esteem is well maintained, individuals can handle problems more easily, overcome the disappointments that are part of life, and cope with any criticism they may receive. Self-esteem cannot prevent feelings of anger from arising occasionally. 
SOURCE: EI:016 Explain the concept of self-esteem
SOURCE: Skills You Need. (2023). Dealing with criticism. Retrieved August 3, 2023, from
https://www.skillsyouneed.com/ips/dealing-with-criticism.html 

59. It is good to feel empathy, but empathy is more beneficial to others if you know how to __________ it. 
A. demonstrate
B. demand
C. describe
D. define

59. A
Demonstrate. It is good to feel empathy, but empathy really cannot benefit others unless you know how to show it. Empathy must be voluntary and cannot be demanded. Defining or describing empathy may make it understandable, but this is not beneficial to others unless you know how to show empathy. 
SOURCE: EI:030 Show empathy for others
SOURCE: LAP-EI-030—Have a Heart (Showing Empathy for Others)
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 14 

63. Maverick is the new manager of the accounting department. He plans to meet with each employee individually and ask them for feedback about his performance so that he can improve his weaknesses. Which of the following approaches is most likely to result in honest feedback from his staff: 
A. Maverick could admit a weakness that he is working on and ask if there are any other things he needs to
improve. B. Maverick could anticipate concerns his employees are likely to have about his management style and
prepare possible explanations. C. Maverick could simply ask employees if they believe he is effectively leading the accounting department.
D. Maverick could ask his employees to compare his leadership with the leadership of the former department

63. A
Maverick could admit a weakness that he is working on and ask if there are any other things he needs to improve. By admitting a personal flaw, Maverick is demonstrating that he can handle criticism so employees are encouraged to respond honestly. Simply asking for opinions about his leadership may seem like Maverick is looking for compliments, and employees may not offer helpful advice. Even if Maverick anticipates concerns, he should focus on listening to the feedback, not on providing explanations for his behavior. Asking employees to compare Maverick to the former manager may only lead to comparisons of his and their former manager's personality or style with little insight into how Maverick could improve. 
SOURCE: EI:106 Solicit feedback
SOURCE: Forbes. (2017, October 17). Want honest feedback from employees? 16 strategies to try. Retrieved
August 3, 2023, from https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbescoachescouncil/2017/10/17/want-honestfeedback-from-employees-16-strategies-to-try/?sh=6c68246929ac 

64. If you fail to assess the long-term value and impact of your actions on others, you are most likely to 
A. damage other people's relationships.
B. limit others' personal growth.
C. become a better observer of the world around you.
D. have a negative impact on society.

64. D
Have a negative impact on society. Failing to assess the long-term value and impact of your actions on others can contribute to a negative impact on society. If no one thinks of others, chaos will ensue! Failing to assess the long-term value and impact of your actions on others may damage your own relationships but should not affect others' relationships. It may limit your personal growth but should not affect others' personal growth. It will not make you a better observer of the world around you. 
SOURCE: EI:137 Assess long-term value and impact of actions on others
SOURCE: LAP-EI-137—Choose for the Future (Assessing the Long-Term Value and Impact of Actions on
Others) BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 15 

71. A reason why being honest helps workers get along well with their coworkers is that honest workers 
A. live up to their promises.
B. are more willing to share.
C. focus on creating harmony.
D. exchange rumors and gossip.

71. A
Live up to their promises. Coworkers know they can count on honest workers to do what they say they will do, to give them straight answers, and to try to do the right thing. This helps create harmony in the workplace, but that is not necessarily a goal of honesty. Honest workers refrain from exchanging rumors and gossip. Honest workers are not necessarily more willing to share. 
SOURCE: EI:022 Demonstrate honesty and integrity
SOURCE: Long, N. (n.d.). How to create an atmosphere of honesty in the workplace. Retrieved August 3, 2023,
from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/create-atmosphere-honesty-workplace-10098.html 

5. Which of the following statements about ethical behavior is true: 
A. It prevents all temptations to act unethically.
B. It includes actions that are consistent only with society's values.
C. It takes education, training, and practice to be effective.
D. It leads people and organizations to negative consequences.

5. C
It takes education, training, and practice to be effective. Ethical behavior includes actions that are consistent with values, both your own and those of society. Ethical behavior doesn’t just happen; it takes education, training, and practice to be effective. Ethical behavior is crucial because it helps people and organizations to avoid—not lead to—negative consequences. Ethical behavior does not prevent all temptations to act unethically. Even those who understand and believe in ethics are sometimes tempted to act unethically. It is sometimes difficult to avoid unethical actions, but it is important to try to do the right thing whenever possible. 
SOURCE: EI:132 Model ethical behavior
SOURCE: LAP-EI-132—Practice What You Preach (Modeling Ethical Behavior)

47. A business is implementing a new company-wide computer system, and Sandra has been tasked with training the staff for the transition. According to the steps in the process of leading change, what should Sandra do first? 
A. Communicate the change to everyone involved.
B. Show why the change is necessary.
C. Ask others to join in leading the change.
D. Immediately put the change into action.

47. B
Show why the change is necessary. According to the steps in the process of leading change, Sandra should first show why the change is necessary. If Sandra wants her staff to take the change seriously, she must show them why the change is good for both them and the company. The second step of the process is to ask others to join in leading the change, followed by communicating the change to everyone involved. After addressing the resistance to change, the final step of the process is to put the change into action. 
SOURCE: EI:005 Lead change
SOURCE: LAP-EI-005—Start the Revolution (Leading Change)

49. When team members work together to generate ideas to accomplish a shared goal that goes beyond the ability of any one person to achieve, what occurs? 
A. Concurrence
B. Cooperation
C. Collaboration
D. Clarification

49. C
Collaboration. Collaboration is a cooperative arrangement in which two or more parties contribute and share responsibilities to achieve success. While collaboration requires cooperation, it is about much more than getting along with others or helping them with a task or a project. Collaboration occurs when all team members work together to generate ideas to accomplish a shared goal that goes beyond the ability of any one person to achieve. Concurrence refers to multiple activities taking place at the same time. Clarification is the process of making something clear and understandable. 
SOURCE: EI:130 Collaborate with others
SOURCE: LAP-EI-130—Genius Is a Team Sport (Collaborating With Others)
2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 12 

74. Which of the following statements about ambiguity is true: 
A. Ambiguity has nothing to do with risk.
B. It’s possible to avoid ambiguity in today's world.
C. Ambiguity refers to certainty and clarity.
D. Tolerating ambiguity means being OK with uncertainty.

74. D
Tolerating ambiguity means being OK with uncertainty. Ambiguity is a state of vagueness, doubt, and uncertainty. Tolerance is the capacity to accept deviation from the norm. Tolerating ambiguity, therefore, means being OK with uncertainty and dealing with it effectively. Ambiguity and risk go hand in hand, as risk is inherent in virtually all ambiguous situations, especially if there’s a chance that things could go wrong. As much as we would like to avoid it, uncertainty and ambiguity are everywhere and unavoidable. They are a part of life. You never know what will happen to you on any given day, no matter how much planning you attempt to do. 
SOURCE: EI:092 Develop tolerance for ambiguity
SOURCE: LAP-EI-092—Embrace the Unknown (Developing a Tolerance for Ambiguity)

95. Being open to new ideas means being 
A. adaptable.
B. wrong.
C. stubborn.
D. comfortable.

95. A
Adaptable. Being open-minded means being adaptable and flexible because it requires being willing to consider different perspectives. Therefore, stubbornness—an unwillingness to change—is not an aspect of being open to new ideas. Part of being open-minded is stepping out of your comfort zone. Being open to new ideas does not necessarily mean your ideas are wrong. While that is sometimes the case, what is more important is that you are willing to be adaptable and change your beliefs and ideas. 
SOURCE: EI:136 Consider conflicting viewpoints
SOURCE: LAP-EI-136—Pick a Side (Considering Conflicting Viewpoints)

97. Which of the following is an example of a limited decision: 
A. Purchasing a car
B. Taking a shower
C. Buying a backpack
D. Ordering lunch

97. C
Buying a backpack. Buying a new backpack is a limited decision because it is not made frequently and involves some degree of consideration. Taking a shower and ordering lunch are everyday decisions that are considered routine decisions. Purchasing a car carries substantial risk and long-term impact—therefore, it is an extensive decision, not a limited decision. 
SOURCE: EI:091 Assess risks of personal decisions
SOURCE: LAP-EI-091—Worth the Risk (Assessing Risks of Personal Decisions)
2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 23 

15. Jack refuses to acknowledge the negative effects that not taking responsibility for decisions and actions has had on his life. Jack is experiencing 
A. hostility.
B. resentment.
C. guilt.
D. denial.

15. D
Denial. Jack is experiencing denial when he refuses to acknowledge the negative effects that not taking responsibility for decisions and actions has had on his life. People can experience denial without necessarily being hostile (argumentative, angry) about it. Guilt is a negative feeling people experience when they've done something they shouldn't or have not done something they should. Resentment is a feeling of bitterness that people experience when they think they've been treated unfairly. 
SOURCE: EI:075 Take responsibility for decisions and actions
SOURCE: LAP-EI-075—It's Up to You (Taking Responsibility for Decisions and Actions)

27. What happens during the emergence stage of a conflict? 
A. The conflict is realized.
B. Options are discussed.
C. Resolution is achieved.
D. Complaints are aired.

27. A
The conflict is realized. During the emergence stage of conflict, the participants become aware of the conflict and experience mental and physical reactions. Complaints are aired during the escalation stage of conflict. Options are discussed during the de-escalation stage. Resolution is the last stage of conflict. 
SOURCE: EI:015 Use conflict-resolution skills
SOURCE: LAP-EI-915—Stop the Madness (Conflict Resolution in Business)

30. Which of the following statements is true about emotional intelligence: 
A. In many situations, individuals can improve their levels of emotional intelligence.
B. Effective leaders tend to have low emotional intelligence and high cognitive abilities.
C. Research indicates that emotional intelligence rarely affects a person's career success.
D. It is easier to develop cognitive abilities than it is to develop emotional intelligence levels.

30. A
In many situations, individuals can improve their levels of emotional intelligence. Emotional intelligence is the ability to recognize and manage emotions in ourselves and in others. Individuals who are willing to recognize, evaluate, and change the way they relate with others can improve their emotional intelligence. People who have high levels of emotional intelligence tend to be effective leaders and achieve career success because they can relate well with others. Cognitive intelligence involves the ability to reason and apply logic. An individual's cognitive abilities are influenced by biological and heredity factors, which are not easily changed. 
SOURCE: EI:001 Describe the nature of emotional intelligence
SOURCE: LAP-EI-001—EQ and You (Emotional Intelligence)

38. Which of the following is most likely to be a source of your values: 
A. The values of your workplace
B. The culture in which you are raised
C. The actions and choices you make
D. The movies you enjoy watching

38. B
The culture in which you are raised. Values come from many places, including family, friends, culture, education, religion, media influences, and significant events in your life or in society. They can also come from one's personality, temperament, and preferences. They are not as likely to come from the movies you enjoy watching, the actions and choices you take, or the values of your workplace. 
SOURCE: EI:126 Assess personal behavior and values
SOURCE: LAP-EI-126—Assess Yourself (Assessing Your Personal Behavior and Values)
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 10 

39. You check in with your group members often to make sure everyone is on track to finish the project. Which characteristic of open, honest communication are you demonstrating? 
A. Being consistent and ongoing
B. Allowing for conflict
C. Giving people the information they need
D. Avoiding half-truths

39. A
Being consistent and ongoing. Being transparent isn't something people can do once and then forget about— instead, it must happen on a consistent, ongoing basis. Avoiding half-truths, giving people the information they need, and allowing for conflict are all characteristics of open, honest communication, but they are not illustrated in this example. 
SOURCE: EI:129 Foster open, honest communication
SOURCE: LAP-EI-129—Can We Talk? (Fostering Open, Honest Communication)

52. Even if an unethical action isn't illegal, it can still cause negative consequences for organizations, such as 
A. decreased managerial authority.
B. imprisonment.
C. an increased customer base.
D. a poor reputation.

52. D
A poor reputation. Even when no laws have been broken, unethical behavior still reflects poorly on individuals and organizations, damaging their reputations. Unethical behavior generally does not lead to an increased customer base. Imprisonment is a negative consequence that would follow an illegal action. Decreased managerial authority is not necessarily related to unethical actions. 
SOURCE: EI:132 Model ethical behavior
SOURCE: LAP-EI-132—Practice What You Preach (Modeling Ethical Behavior)

62. You overhear your boss discussing private information about another employee's performance. You keep it to yourself. Which trust-building technique are you demonstrating? 
A. Taking responsibility for your mistakes
B. Communicating often and openly
C. Not sharing confidential information
D. Keeping your promises

62. C
Not sharing confidential information. Although being honest is an important part of being trustworthy, it's just as important to keep confidential information to yourself. By not sharing the information you overheard, you are building trust in your relationship with your boss. Taking responsibility for your mistakes, keeping your promises, and communicating often and openly are other techniques used to build trust. 
SOURCE: EI:128 Build trust in relationships
SOURCE: LAP-EI-128—Trust in Me (Building Trust in Relationships)

64. Emily's classmate is upset because they are having a hard time understanding the new concepts they're learning in math class. Which of the following actions should Emily take if she wants to show her classmate empathy: 
A. Think of a time when she had difficulty with an assignment, and tell the classmate she knows how they feel
B. Tell the classmate they should sign up for after-school tutoring so that their grades will improve
C. Let the classmate copy her answers on their next test
D. Ask the classmate how long they studied for their last test

64. A
Think of a time when she had difficulty with an assignment, and tell the classmate she knows how they feel. Empathy is the ability to put yourself in another person's place. This can help you respect others because you are able to better understand other people. If Emily thinks about a time when she has felt the same as her classmate, she is showing empathy. Letting her classmate copy her answers or asking them how much they studied would not show empathy. Telling the classmate to sign up for after-school tutoring may be helpful, but it is not empathetic. 
SOURCE: EI:036 Treat others with dignity and respect
SOURCE: LAP-EI-036—Everyone's Worthy (Treating Others With Dignity and Respect)

3. For project managers, the most important part of managing stakeholder expectations is 
A. justifying them.
B. understanding them.
C. competing against them.
D. delegating them.

3. B
Understanding them. For project managers, the most important part of managing stakeholder expectations is understanding them. Only when project teams feel they fully comprehend what stakeholders expect can they start to manage those expectations. It would not make sense to compete against stakeholder expectations or delegate them. Stakeholders would be the ones justifying their expectations, not project managers. 
SOURCE: EI:113 Determine stakeholder expectations
SOURCE: Pandey, S. (2022, May 24). How to manage expectations during your project? Retrieved August 11,
2023, from https://www.projectcentral.com/blog/manage-expectations/ 

4. When Nilesh started a new job, he trained alongside another employee for a few weeks so that he could get the hang of his job duties. The time that Nilesh spent training with the other employee is an example of a(n) 
A. emergency.
B. resource issue.
C. government regulation.
D. transition period.

4. D
Transition period. Transition periods are designed to allow you to adjust to your new surroundings over time. By adjusting slowly to his new job duties, Nilesh was less likely to feel overwhelmed. Resource issues occur when you don't have enough of a resource (people, money, information, ideas, and other essential items that are used to produce or do something). Government regulations deal with laws. Emergencies include situations like fires or floods that demand quick action and adaptation by everyone involved. 
SOURCE: EI:006 Demonstrate adaptability
SOURCE: LAP-EI-006—Go With the Flow (Demonstrating Adaptability)
ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 2 

9. Which of the following is an effective negotiation strategy: 
A. Using a "give-and-take" tactic to reach an agreement
B. Giving the other person as much time as they need to decide
C. Pushing the other person into making a decision
D. Insisting on your terms during the negotiation process

9. A
Using a "give-and-take" tactic to reach an agreement. This tactic is known as bargaining, and it can be a highly effective negotiation strategy. Each person proposes solutions and uses "give-and-take" tactics to reach an agreement. You may have to give up something, but you get something in return. During negotiations, you should give the salesperson a specific deadline to meet your request. It's a way of making the negotiation real and specific. An advantage to this strategy is that it introduces a deadline as a negotiable point. If you set a deadline earlier than is necessary, you can build in negotiating room. Similarly, if you show no flexibility whatsoever during a negotiation, the other person may decide that it's not worth their time to speak with you. 
SOURCE: EI:062 Demonstrate negotiation skills
SOURCE: LAP-EI-062—Make It a Win-Win (Negotiation in Business)

68. If one of your coworkers is treating another coworker unfairly, what is the ethical thing to do? 
A. Ignore it.
B. Speak up.
C. Look for another job.
D. Be aggressive.

68. B
Speak up. Fairness involves sticking up for people who are being treated unfairly, not ignoring the problem. Acting aggressively toward the coworker would not be ethical behavior. Looking for another job would not resolve the issue or demonstrate ethical behavior. 
SOURCE: EI:123 Describe the nature of ethics
SOURCE: LAP-EI-123—Rules To Live By (Nature of Ethics)

69. Two small businesses share a warehouse, keeping rent costs low for both businesses. The businesses have formed a 
A. strategic relationship.
B. distribution channel.
C. contingency plan.
D. communications plan.

69. A
Strategic relationship. A strategic relationship is one in which multiple businesses enter into an agreement and help each other, financially or otherwise. Often, the partnering businesses have assets or services that may help the other. A communications plan is a document that contains strategies for managing the flow of information that must occur between all of a project's stakeholders throughout the life of the project. A contingency plan is a set of specific guidelines to help respond to undesirable circumstances. A distribution channel is a path or route that goods or services take from the producer to the ultimate consumer or industrial user. Although every business must have at least one distribution channel, sharing a warehouse facility as a means to save money is not an example of a distribution channel. 
SOURCE: EI:114 Establish strategic relationships with others
SOURCE: Martin, M. (n.d ). What are the basic elements to a strategic partnership? Retrieved August 11, 2023,
from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/basic-elements-strategic-partnership-35782.html 

77. A bakery has a vision to become the number one rated cupcake shop in town for the next six months. The most significant problem with this vision is that it is 
A. unclear.
B. relatable.
C. short term.
D. realistic.

77. C
Short term. Great visions are long term rather than short term. This vision only looks at the next six months, which isn't necessarily long term. There is no indication that the vision is unclear. Good visions should be realistic and relatable. Being realistic or relatable is not a problem demonstrated by the vision in this scenario. 
SOURCE: EI:060 Enlist others in working toward a shared vision
SOURCE: LAP-EI-060—Vision Quest (Enlisting Others in Vision)

12. Which of the following is an important part of team recognition: 
A. Written praise
B. Celebrating together
C. Giving certificates
D. Going public

12. B
Celebrating together. Celebrating is an important part of team recognition. You probably recall a time when you and a team or group celebrated your success together. Maybe your baseball team had an end-of-season party, or your math class held an end-of-semester celebration. Celebrating together usually means planning an activity everyone can enjoy while taking a moment to reflect on the team’s goals and accomplishments. Going public, giving certificates, and written praise are all forms of recognition, but celebrating together is the most important for team recognition. 
SOURCE: EI:014 Recognize/Reward others for their efforts and contributions
SOURCE: LAP-EI-141—Gimme Five! (Recognizing/Rewarding Others)
2024 HS ICDC ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 4 

64. If a business is looking to build strategic relationships, it should 
A. tailor its communication.
B. focus on its own needs.
C. seek a deal as soon as possible.
D. avoid asking questions.

64. A
Tailor its communication. Strategic relationships are successfully formed when both sides share a common vision that they can work toward together. Both parties will be equally motivated to succeed. When looking to build strategic relationships, businesses should tailor their communication to the interests and communication preferences of the other party. By doing this, businesses can ensure their communication in the relationship is effective. While it is important to consider yourself and your needs, it is also important to consider the needs of others, especially in a strategic relationship. Seeking a deal as soon as possible and not asking questions are not ways in which businesses should look to build strategic relationships. Rather, businesses should be willing to take the time to communicate and negotiate with other businesses when seeking a deal, and should ask questions to ensure that they are on the same page. 
SOURCE: EI:114 Establish strategic relationships with others
SOURCE: Hendricks, A. (2023). How to build strategic relationships inside (and outside) of your organization.
Retrieved January 22, 2024, from https://simplystakeholders.com/build-strategic-relationships 

67. One way a company can manage its stakeholder expectations is to 
A. set lofty expectations.
B. manage each stakeholder the same.
C. understand stakeholder needs.
D. keep stakeholders out of the loop.

67. C
Understand stakeholder needs. One way a company can manage its stakeholder expectations is to understand stakeholder needs and expectations. Doing this will help companies tailor their approach to suit each stakeholder group. Companies should manage stakeholders differently, as projects typically have a range of different stakeholders and, thus, a broad range of expectations. Companies should also keep their stakeholders in the loop. Rather than setting lofty expectations, companies should set realistic expectations with their stakeholders. 
SOURCE: EI:113 Determine stakeholder expectations
SOURCE: Kitch, B. (2023, February 24). 10 tips for managing stakeholder expectations. Retrieved January 11,
2024, from https://www.mural.co/blog/manage-stakeholder-expectations 

98. When Camilla shows De’Vondre her new logo design, he exclaims, “Wow, this is amazing! I love the colors you chose!” However, De’Vondre actually thinks the colors clash and look terrible. In this situation, De’Vondre failed to 
A. be timely.
B. be genuine.
C. be personalized.
D. match the effort.

98. B
Be genuine. To be most effective, recognition must be genuine. If you really believe in the value of the person’s effort, others will pick up on your enthusiasm very easily. The opposite is true, too: If you don’t believe in the value of their effort, they’ll pick up on the emptiness of your message. Even though De’Vondre said he liked her logo, Camilla is likely to pick up on his true feelings. In this situation De’Vondre’s recognition was personalized and timely, and it matched the effort. 
SOURCE: EI:014 Recognize/Reward others for their efforts and contributions
SOURCE: LAP-EI-141—Gimme Five! (Recognizing/Rewarding Others)

13. Which of the following is a benefit of sharing best practices within an organization: 
A. It guarantees better decision-making.
B. It encourages employees to keep information to themselves.
C. It increases time and costs.
D. It identifies and fills knowledge gaps.

13. D
It identifies and fills knowledge gaps. One benefit of sharing best practices within an organization is that it helps identify and fill knowledge gaps. Sharing best practices with key individuals and groups also nurtures a learning culture, generates creative ideas, increases efficiency, and creates a supportive community. Sharing best practices does not guarantee better decision-making. It decreases time and costs, and it encourages employees to share information. 
SOURCE: EI:115 Share best practices with key individuals and groups
SOURCE: Memari, E. (2018, May 9). 9 benefits of sharing best practices in an organization. Retrieved October
2, 2023, from https://elearningindustry.com/sharing-best-practices-organization-9-benefits ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 4 

27. Which of the following statements would be appropriate to say after successfully selling your idea to an audience: 
A. “You won't regret this decision—I am confident my idea will help our organization.”
B. “Thank you so much for allowing me to present my idea. Let's hope it works!”
C. “I'm not sure if it will work, but I'm so glad you decided to say yes to my idea!”
D. “My idea probably won't make a difference, but it's worth a shot, right?”

27. A
“You won't regret this decision—I am confident my idea will help our organization.” This statement would be appropriate to say after successfully selling an idea to others because it helps the audience feel good about their decision, rather than raising potential doubts about your idea's likelihood for success. The other three alternatives lack confidence in the idea, which would likely lead the audience to question their decision. 
SOURCE: EI:108 "Sell" ideas to others
SOURCE: LAP-EI-108—Do They Buy It? ("Selling" Ideas to Others)

33. You have a hard time persuading your coworkers because they don't see you as honest or dependable. You need to develop 
A. credibility.
B. a sense of humor.
C. ambition.
D. punctuality.

33. A
Credibility. Persuading others isn't always easy, but there are steps you can take toward being more persuasive. The first step lies in developing personal credibility. When you have credibility, others trust and believe what you say. Credible people are seen as experts, they tell the truth, and they are dependable. Having a sense of humor, being punctual, and having ambition can all be important traits at work, but they do not necessarily help your coworkers see you as honest or dependable. 
SOURCE: EI:012 Persuade others
SOURCE: LAP-EI-912—Win Them Over (Persuading Others)

44. Why do many businesses encourage team building? 
A. To obtain feedback
B. To understand diversity
C. To develop training
D. To improve performance

44. D
To improve performance. Team building involves developing cooperative efforts between employees and management to accomplish company goals and objectives. One reason why many businesses encourage team building is that it tends to improve the performance of the group so they are better able to achieve specific objectives. When team members work together for a common purpose, they usually are more effective and perform better than when employees work independently to achieve a common goal. Businesses do not encourage team building to obtain feedback, develop training, or understand diversity. 
SOURCE: EI:044 Encourage team building
SOURCE: Indeed. (2023, February 28). 17 benefits of team building for your organization. Retrieved October 2,
2023, from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/benefits-of-team-building 

45. Keeping the end goal in mind refers to which standard of excellence that achievement-oriented people set? 
A. Results
B. Improvement
C. Competition
D. Trying something new

45. A
Results. Keeping the end goal in mind refers to being results-oriented, a characteristic of achievement-oriented people. They like being able to objectively evaluate their successes. They also value improvement, trying something new, and competition; however, these standards don't necessarily relate to keeping the end goal in mind. 
SOURCE: EI:027 Develop an achievement orientation
SOURCE: LAP-EI-027—High Hopes (Developing an Achievement Orientation)

88. Nicole considers stealing because she doesn’t think anyone will catch her. Nicole is facing an ethical dilemma because of 
A. a lack of consequences.
B. a bad role model.
C. the desire to prove herself.
D. pressure from others.

88. A
A lack of consequences. The threat of punishment is one reason why most people behave properly. A lack of consequences can cause some people to become arrogant and assume they will not be caught. Nicole is not facing an ethical dilemma because of a bad role model, the desire to prove herself, or pressure from others. 
SOURCE: EI:124 Explain reasons for ethical dilemmas
SOURCE: LAP-EI-124—What's the Situation? (Reasons for Ethical Dilemmas)

6. Your personal vision should address your future career, family life, personal/social relationships, and 
A. your academic goals for the semester.
B. your to-do list for the next two weeks.
C. your role in your community.
D. your New Year's resolution for this year.

6. C
Your role in your community. Your personal vision should address the impact you hope to have in your community through the various roles that you will have in your life—employee, citizen, mother, father, sister, brother, etc. New Year's resolutions are usually specific goals that individuals hope to achieve—therefore, they are too short-term to be included in a personal vision. Your vision should not address your to-do list or your academic goals, either—both are too specific and short-term to be included in your vision. 
SOURCE: EI:063 Determine personal vision
SOURCE: LAP-EI-063—Picture This! (Determining Personal Vision)

9. John is generally a good worker, except that he lacks the ability to see what needs to be done without being told. What personal trait is John lacking? 
A. Initiative
B. Honesty
C. Creativity
D. Empathy

9. A
Initiative. Initiative is willingness to act without having to be told to do so and sometimes includes willingness to accept/seek additional or unpleasant duties. A person with initiative is ready, willing, and able to think and act on their own. Creativity is the ability to generate unique ideas, approaches, and solutions. Empathy is the ability to put oneself in another person's place. Honesty is acting in a truthful, fair manner. 
SOURCE: EI:024 Demonstrate initiative
SOURCE: LAP-EI-240—Hustle! (Taking Initiative at Work)

25. A key factor in successful human relations involves treating others with 
A. reverence.
B. admiration.
C. respect.
D. indifference.

25. C
Respect. Respect is showing regard for other people and their ideas. To have successful human relations, you must have respect for others and for yourself. It is not necessary to admire everyone or to treat them with reverence, but you should not treat anyone with indifference. 
SOURCE: EI:037 Foster positive working relationships
SOURCE: LAP-EI-037—Can You Relate? (Fostering Positive Working Relationships)

26. Written communication tends to be more formal than other methods of communication because it 
A. is the preferred method of communication for all jobs.
B. is always composed of facts, not opinions.
C. is always used by knowledgeable people.
D. allows individuals to organize their thoughts meaningfully.

26. D
Allows individuals to organize their thoughts meaningfully. Written communication tends to be more formal than other forms of communication because it allows individuals to collect and organize their thoughts in a meaningful and purposeful way. Written communication is not necessarily always used by knowledgeable people, and written communication often contains opinions as well as facts. Written communication skills are important for many jobs, but written communication is not the preferred method of communication for all jobs. 
SOURCE: EI:007 Explain the nature of effective communications
SOURCE: LAP-EI-140—More Than Just Talk (Effective Communication)

28. Bill disciplines each of his children exactly the same way when they break the rules. Bill is being 
A. consistent.
B. biased.
C. generous.
D. empathetic.

28. A
Consistent. Consistency means treating everyone the same regardless of the situation or circumstances. Since Bill treats all of his children the same way, he is being consistent. This situation does not show that Bill is empathetic, biased, or generous. 
SOURCE: EI:127 Demonstrate fairness
SOURCE: LAP-EI-127—Fair or Foul? (Demonstrating Fairness)
FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 7 

38. When giving constructive criticism, it's important to do so in a __________ manner. 
A. public
B. nonthreatening
C. forceful
D. humorous

38. B
Nonthreatening. Constructive criticism should always be given in a nonthreatening way. People don't usually respond well to criticism when they're afraid. Criticism should never be given in public, as doing so could embarrass the message receiver. It's also best to avoid being forceful, as that might be perceived as threatening. While sometimes humor can help you deliver a bad message, it's a better idea to focus on being nonthreatening, thoughtful, and nonjudgmental instead of being funny. 
SOURCE: EI:003 Explain the use of feedback for personal growth
SOURCE: LAP-EI-903—Grin and Bear It (Using Feedback for Personal Growth)

41. DeMarcus behaves ethically at his job even when no coworkers or supervisors are watching. DeMarcus is displaying 
A. greed.
B. transparency.
C. integrity.
D. viability.

41. C
Integrity. Having integrity means acting ethically even when no one is watching. Transparency and viability are also ethical principles, but DeMarcus is not demonstrating them in this example. DeMarcus is not demonstrating greed. 
SOURCE: EI:124 Explain reasons for ethical dilemmas
SOURCE: LAP-EI-124—What's the Situation? (Reasons for Ethical Dilemmas)

64. In developed societies, intrinsic motivation is generally more powerful than extrinsic motivation because it 
A. comes from outside of the individual's personal desires.
B. is independent of factors that are already satisfied.
C. is tied to external rewards such as money or prizes.
D. can be easily changed based on the person's environment.

64. B
Is independent of factors that are already satisfied. In developed societies where most people already have access to basic necessities like food and shelter, extrinsic motivation isn't as effective as intrinsic motivation. Because external, low-level needs are of lesser concern, a person's individual ambitions and hopes are a more powerful motivator. By nature, intrinsic motivation is not tied to external rewards, nor does it come from outside one's personal desires. Similarly, intrinsic motivation cannot be easily altered by one's environment, because it is rooted within one's pursuit of self-actualization. 
SOURCE: EI:059 Motivate team members
SOURCE: LAP-EI-059—Raise Them Up (Motivating Others)

97. When Violet makes a mistake, she admits it to her boss and tries to make things right. Violet is demonstrating 
A. loyalty.
B. empathy.
C. consistency.
D. dependability.

97. D
Dependability. Dependability includes being accountable for your actions and your mistakes. This means accepting responsibility when things go wrong. When Violet makes a mistake, she demonstrates dependability by admitting the mistake and trying to make it right. Loyalty, empathy, and consistency are all important qualities that trustworthy people possess, but Violet does not demonstrate them in this example. 
SOURCE: EI:128 Build trust in relationships
SOURCE: LAP-EI-128—Trust in Me (Building Trust in Relationships)

3. Monique’s classmates frequently complain about their teacher. If Monique adopts their same attitudes, even though she doesn’t really agree with them, she is demonstrating 
A. status quo bias.
B. groupthink.
C. critical thinking.
D. acceptance.

3. B
Groupthink. When a person makes a poor decision out of fear of disagreeing with a group, they are demonstrating groupthink behavior. Status quo bias refers to a preference to maintain the status quo and the view that a change from it is a loss. Acceptance refers to a conscious decision to personally agree with a practice instead of simply following the crowd. Critical thinking involves an analysis or assessment to make sound judgments by viewing other viewpoints or ideas. Monique is not demonstrating acceptance or critical thinking because she is opting to follow the crowd and is not making sound judgments in doing so. 
SOURCE: EI:134 Challenge the status quo
SOURCE: LAP-EI-134—Unfollow the Crowd (Challenging the Status Quo)

7. Reflecting on what you have learned allows you to 
A. be true to your core values, beliefs, and attitudes.
B. prevent offending or belittling someone else.
C. prove to others that you are right and they are wrong.
D. avoid asking difficult questions about your beliefs.

7. A
Be true to your core values, beliefs, and attitudes. Reflecting on and processing what you have learned, otherwise known as critical thinking, will help you make an informed decision on a topic that feels true to your core values, beliefs, and attitudes. Being true to your values and beliefs does not mean proving to others that they are wrong. Sometimes, you may even realize that they are right and you are wrong. Being respectful helps you prevent offending or belittling others; reflecting on what you have learned is an internal process and does not necessarily impact how you treat others. Reflecting on what you have learned often requires you to ask difficult questions, not avoid them. 
SOURCE: EI:136 Consider conflicting viewpoints
SOURCE: LAP-EI-136—Pick a Side (Considering Conflicting Viewpoints)

33. Trying to balance friendships with extracurricular activities is an example of a __________ risk. 
A. financial
B. relationship
C. reputational
D. health and safety

33. B
Relationship. Relationship risks are the risks that come with your choice of friends and their impact on you. Balancing friendships with extracurricular activities is a relationship risk because that decision has a direct impact on your friends and could put those relationships at risk. There is no indication that this is an example of a health and safety risk or financial risk. While this kind of decision could affect your reputation, the example better exemplifies a relationship risk because it directly impacts friendships. 
SOURCE: EI:091 Assess risks of personal decisions
SOURCE: LAP-EI-091—Worth the Risk (Assessing Risks of Personal Decisions)

75. After working on a successful project together, Sam and Rachel gained a sense of accomplishment and pride in their work. Which of the following benefits of collaboration are Sam and Rachel experiencing: 
A. Better relationships
B. Greater job satisfaction
C. Stronger economy
D. More innovative ideas

75. B
Greater job satisfaction. Collaborative work environments are often viewed as friendly and progressive places that people want to be part of. When given the freedom to use their strengths to complete successful projects together, employees gain a sense of accomplishment and pride, view tasks as challenges rather than boring activities, and ultimately experience greater job satisfaction. Better relationships, more innovative ideas, and a stronger economy are all possible benefits of collaboration, but they are not demonstrated in this example. 
SOURCE: EI:130 Collaborate with others
SOURCE: LAP-EI-130—Genius Is a Team Sport (Collaborating With Others)
2024 HS ICDC FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 19 

80. Jocelyn wants to make an effort to be more mindful in her life. What can she do to practice mindfulness? 
A. Worry about things that are out of her control
B. Be present in the moment instead of thinking about the past
C. Think more about the future than the present or past
D. Try new things and change her daily routine

80. B
Be present in the moment instead of thinking about the past. Mindfulness is the state of being aware of the moment you are in, including your thoughts, feelings, and actions. Being mindful means being present where you are, rather than thinking about the past or worrying about the future. When the future is uncertain, you will accept it more if you can be present in the current moment rather than worrying about what you cannot predict or control. Trying new things and changing up her daily routine may help Jocelyn step out of her comfort zone, but it won't necessarily help her with practicing mindfulness. 
SOURCE: EI:092 Develop tolerance for ambiguity
SOURCE: LAP-EI-092—Embrace the Unknown (Developing a Tolerance for Ambiguity)

99. Mateo, an employee at a retail store, is dealing with an angry customer. The customer is yelling, being disrespectful, and keeps talking over Mateo when he tries to help. How can Mateo model ethical behavior in this situation? 
A. Tell the customer they are being rude
B. Make the customer leave the store
C. Be disrespectful and yell back to the customer
D. Treat the customer with fairness

99. D
Treat the customer with fairness. Even though the customer is being rude and disrespectful, Mateo can model ethical behavior by treating the customer with fairness. Mateo can make the customer leave the store or tell them they are being rude, but doing either is not necessarily modeling ethical behavior. Being disrespectful and yelling back to the customer are not ways to model ethical behavior. 
SOURCE: EI:132 Model ethical behavior
SOURCE: LAP-EI-132—Practice What You Preach (Modeling Ethical Behavior)

2. Statements about a present or desired strength are called 
A. roles.
B. images.
C. visualizations.
D. affirmations.

2. D
Affirmations. Affirmations are positive statements about something you want to accept, incorporate, or develop. Roles are parts or positions that one plays in life in response to the various demands of society (e.g., student, parent). Images are mental pictures. Visualization is the practice of imagining yourself in possession of a present or desired strength. 
SOURCE: EI:016 Explain the concept of self-esteem
SOURCE: Mind Tools. (2023). Using affirmations. Retrieved September 28, 2023, from
https://www.mindtools.com/air49f4/using-affirmations 

10. A local automotive parts manufacturer was forced to close because unemployment caused a decline in automobile sales. This is an example of a problem caused by a(n) __________ change. 
A. personal
B. economic
C. technological
D. social

10. B
Economic. Fluctuations or "ups and downs" in the economy such as shifts in employment levels are economic changes. Shifts in the values, tastes, habits, and compositions of society are social changes. Technological changes refer to developments, breakthroughs, and other changes in the scientific applications to business objectives. Changes concerning our bodies, minds, and lifestyles are known as personal changes. 
SOURCE: EI:026 Adjust to change
SOURCE: Daisyme, P. (2020, December 16). How to adapt in a rapidly changing economy. Retrieved
September 28, 2023, from https://www.entrepreneur.com/growing-a-business/how-to-adapt-in-arapidly-changing-economy/361129 

14. Your ability to empathize with someone else is limited by the number/nature of your experiences and by your 
A. physical traits.
B. intelligence.
C. self-understanding.
D. job skills.

14. C
Self-understanding. You must be able to comprehend your own thoughts, attitudes, and actions before you can identify similar qualities in others and empathize with them. The alternatives would not necessarily limit selfunderstanding or perception of others. 
SOURCE: EI:030 Show empathy for others
SOURCE: LAP-EI-030—Have a Heart (Showing Empathy for Others)

37. Which of the following is one way that business employees can relieve work-related stress: 
A. Strive for perfection
B. Ignore the problem
C. Exercise regularly
D. Vacation frequently

37. C
Exercise regularly. Most employees will experience a certain amount of stress at some time during their careers. Recognizing stress and taking steps to reduce or relieve it are essential to an employee's well-being. One way to relieve stress is to exercise on a regular basis. Exercise helps relieve tension, relax a person, and provide a physical outlet for pent-up emotions, such as anger or frustration. Even moderate exercise helps a person manage stress and stay healthy. Most employees are not able to vacation frequently. Ignoring the problem often increases stress. Striving for perfection often creates stress. 
SOURCE: EI:028 Explain the nature of stress management
SOURCE: SHRM. (2023). How can employers help to reduce stress in the workplace? Retrieved September
28, 2023, from https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/hr-qa/pages/reducingstress-in-the-workplace.aspx 

70. One of the most important things you must do before you can inspire other people is 
A. earn at least $45,000 a year.
B. graduate from college.
C. learn how to supervise others.
D. show that you can be trusted.

70. D Show that you can be trusted. Without the trust of your peers, coworkers, or friends, you can't inspire anybody. People simply aren't inspired by people they dislike or mistrust. Therefore, earning the trust of others is essential for inspiring others. Graduating from college, earning at least $45,000 a year, and learning how to supervise others are not essential for inspiring others. 
SOURCE: EI:133 Inspire others
SOURCE: LAP-EI-133—A Force for Good (Inspiring Others)

75. For places such as work or school to function smoothly, everyone must 
A. pay their taxes on time.
B. talk about their feelings.
C. have a sense of social responsibility.
D. agree on the same solutions.

75. C
Have a sense of social responsibility. For places such as work or school to function smoothly, everyone must have a sense of social responsibility. Social responsibility means that people respect and honor each other's rights and dignity. It is not necessary for everyone to pay taxes, to talk about their feelings, or to agree on the same solutions for a workplace or school to function smoothly. 
SOURCE: EI:021 Demonstrate responsible behavior
SOURCE: LAP-EI-021—Make the Honor Role (Acting Responsibly)

82. Achievement-oriented people often want to 
A. let others win.
B. keep things the same.
C. do things more efficiently.
D. be told what to do.

82. C
Do things more efficiently. Achievement-oriented people often want to do things better or more efficiently than they have ever been done before. They are driven to achieve their goals and meet or exceed a high standard of success. They do not like to be told what to do or to let others win. They are not satisfied with the status quo— the way things are. They are constantly seeking to improve. 
SOURCE: EI:027 Develop an achievement orientation
SOURCE: LAP-EI-027—High Hopes (Developing an Achievement Orientation)

89. Which of the following is an example of violating a coworker's privacy in the workplace: 
A. Thomas changed the wording on Carrie's report with her approval.
B. Joe needed a pen, so he opened Ali's desk drawer to look for one while she was away.
C. Paige sent a personal email from her work computer to her friend Alan.
D. Ruby saw that her coworkers were having a serious discussion, so she walked away.

89. B
Joe needed a pen, so he opened Ali's desk drawer to look for one while she was away. Employees should not go through their coworkers' desks, files, correspondence, or personal belongings in the workplace. To do so is a violation of privacy. When employees respect the privacy of others in the workplace, they are more likely to gain the trust and respect of their coworkers and managers. Walking away from a serious discussion and changing a document with the writer's approval are not violations of privacy. Sending a personal email from work is not an invasion of privacy, but it is wasting company resources because it is not business-related. 
SOURCE: EI:029 Respect the privacy of others
SOURCE: Hamlin, K. (2017, July 5). Respecting a co-worker's personal space. Retrieved September 28, 2023,
from https://careertrend.com/respecting-coworkers-personal-space-9496.html FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 22 

5. Which of the following is a reason that responsible employees cost a business less than irresponsible employees: 
A. They look for ways to increase their productivity.
B. They often fail to follow directions.
C. They overuse their sick leave and other benefits.
D. They come to work late and leave early.

5. A
They look for ways to increase their productivity. Responsible employees look for ways to do jobs faster so that they will be more efficient. This increases their productivity and makes their output cost less than the output of irresponsible employees who don't care about productivity. Irresponsible employees cost the business money by coming to work late and leaving early, failing to follow directions, and overusing their benefits. 
SOURCE: EI:021 Demonstrate responsible behavior
SOURCE: LAP-EI-021—Make the Honor Role (Acting Responsibly)
HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 2 5. The mean of the data set [2, 3, 9, 6, 4, 8, 3] is 5. The mean is the average, which is calculated by dividing the
sum of the values in a data set (in this instance, 35) by how many numbers are being averaged (in this instance, 7.) So, 35 / 7= 5. The median, mode, and range of this data set are 4, 3, and 7, respectively. 
SOURCE: NF:237 Interpret descriptive statistics for business decision making
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2023, March 21). Descriptive statistics. Retrieved August 4, 2023, from
https://www.investopedia.com/terms/d/descriptive_statistics.asp HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 5 19. A Selling customer lists without the customers' consent to third parties. It is unethical for a business to sell its customers' information to third parties without the customers' permission because it is a breach of privacy. When privacy is breached, trust is broken, and customers may defect to the business's competitors. Implementing a frequent-buyers program, collecting information with authorization, and allowing customers to opt-out of email updates are ethical actions. 
SOURCE: CR:017 Explain the role of ethics in customer relationship management
SOURCE: Wordstream. (2023, March 30). Customer data privacy 101: 10 non-negotiable best practices to
protect your business. Retrieved August 3, 2023, from https://www.wordstream.com/blog/ws/2022/11/22/customer-data-privacy 20. D Online businesses can easily become involved in international trade. A company that has a website can easily be found by people in foreign countries, and online services make international transactions easy to conduct. Small businesses represent a large majority of international trade. Freight forwarding services are often used by companies, but they are not required. Foreign language skills may be helpful, but they are not required to conduct international trade, since people in many countries speak more than one language and translation services exist. 
SOURCE: EN:041 Describe small-business opportunities in international trade
SOURCE: Ikenson, D. (2022, June 13). The e-commerce revolution is transforming global trade and benefitting
the U.S. economy. Retrieved August 3, 2023, from https://www.forbes.com/sites/danikenson/2022/06/13/the-e-commerce-revolution-is-transformingglobal-trade-and-benefitting-the-us-economy/ 21. C Your level of self-esteem depends on your ability to accept yourself as you are. Self-esteem is how you feel about yourself at any given time. Your level of self-esteem can fluctuate from time to time; however, if you have an overall high level of self-esteem, you can accept yourself as you are—both your positive and negative qualities. Having good self-esteem does not mean that you overlook your faults, weaknesses and mistakes; rather, you recognize them and strive to improve over time. A person with high self-esteem has the ability to recognize others' abilities and accomplishments without feeling threatened or discouraged about their own abilities and accomplishments. Many people who have low self-esteem do not trust their own abilities and are less likely to try harder or strive for success because they fear they will fail. 
SOURCE: EI:016 Explain the concept of self-esteem
SOURCE: Mind. (2023). Self-esteem. Retrieved August 15, 2023, from https://www.mind.org.uk/informationsupport/types-of-mental-health-problems/self-esteem/about-self-esteem/
22. B Explain the purpose of the report. A short report is a formal but brief document that provides information needed for decision-making. Tia should start her short report with an introduction that states the purpose of the report and captures the manager's attention. Next, she should share pertinent facts, concerns for the organization, and other relevant information. The report's conclusion should contain a short summary and can include a recommendation that reinforces the report's message. Specific examples of negative impacts and information from the budget can be shared in the body of the report to illustrate concerns. A short report is not appropriate for sharing formal plans. 
SOURCE: NF:292 Prepare written reports for hospitality and tourism decision-making
SOURCE: Meier, K.S. (2018, August 8). How to write a short report to the general manager. Retrieved August
4, 2023, from https://work.chron.com/write-short-report-general-manager-7223.html HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 6 23. C Transportation. The development of rail, automobile, and air travel in the past 150 years has had the most impact on the development of the hospitality industry. Business and leisure travel has dramatically expanded because the time, comfort, and ease of travel has improved. This, in turn, creates a demand for facilities to house a wide variety of travelers. The retail, lumber, and financial industries would be impacted by growth or decline of the hospitality industry. The higher demand for hospitality services would naturally result in a higher demand for financial backing, building materials for facilities, and retail establishments for travelers. 
SOURCE: PD:105 Describe the development of the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: Westcott, M. (n.d.). Introduction to tourism and hospitality in BC: Chapter 2. Transportation.
Retrieved August 4, 2023, from https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/introtourismbc/chapter/chapter-2-transportation/ 24. D Improvement. Quality management is the coordination of resources to ensure the degree of excellence of a process, good, or service. Quality improvement involves using a systematic approach to increase the levels of excellence in relation to a process, good, or service. Quality assurance is the processes involved in checking processes or products to ensure that they are consistently meeting the business's quality standards. Deviation is the degree to which a process or product does not meet the business's quality standards. 
SOURCE: QM:001 Explain the nature of quality management
SOURCE: LAP-QM-001—Keep It Quality (Nature of Quality Management)
25. A An airline. Travel and tourism employees are in charge of making sure customers have the best experience possible while traveling and planning their trips. A travel and tourism employee might be employed at an airline. If Mackenzie works in the travel and tourism industry, she would not be employed at a state park, a hotel, or a restaurant. 
SOURCE: PD:272 Explain career opportunities in hospitality and tourism
SOURCE: LAP-PD-272—Career Opportunities in Hospitality and Tourism
26. D Data that show the number of times each customer has used the card over several months. The mean of a set of data is the average of those data. So, the most effective method for determining the mean use-rate of loyalty cards involves using data from a wide range of customers. Examining several months of individual customer data will help determine the mean or average use-rate of customers' loyalty cards. Data revealing the month of highest loyalty card use do not show the overall customer use-rate. Data revealing which customers use the card most or least also do not help determine the overall customer use-rate. 
SOURCE: NF:236 Explain the use of descriptive statistics in business decision making
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2023, March 21). Descriptive statistics. Retrieved August 4, 2023, from
https://www.investopedia.com/terms/d/descriptive_statistics.asp 27. D Compensation. Determining fair compensation can sometimes be a challenge for human resources managers. An example of compensation presenting an ethical dilemma is choosing a health care plan for employees. Deciding between a cheap but lower-quality health care plan and a more expensive but more comprehensive plan is not an example of an ethical dilemma related to hiring and firing, employment law, or race and gender. 
SOURCE: HR:411 Explain the role of ethics in human resources management
SOURCE: LAP-HR-411—Moral Mediators (Ethics in Human Resources Management)
HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 7 28. B Blanket purchase order. Blanket purchase orders are created when the item and negotiated price are set with a supplier or vendor, but the quantity and schedule may vary from order to order. These are most often used for recurring orders of the same item in circumstances where the item quantity is likely to vary based on need. Often there is a negotiated set of terms and conditions including spending limits and duration of agreed pricing. A standard purchase order is used for a single purchase in which the terms and conditions apply only to a single transaction. A planned purchase order is often used in situations with recurring purchases in which the item, price, quantity, and delivery schedule are all negotiated and set. A contract purchase order is a formal agreement between buyer and supplier in which terms are set but no actual purchase is required. Contract purchase orders act like contracts for future purchases but do not necessarily require any purchases to be made. 
SOURCE: OP:250 Describe types of purchase orders
SOURCE: Poskitt, C. (2019, September 27). The know-it-all-guide to purchase orders. Retrieved August 4,
2023, from https://www.turbinehq.com/blog/guide-to-purchase-orders#Chapter-4 29. C Avoid direct skin contact and wear disposable gloves. To protect from bacteria transmission and skin irritation, hotel housekeeping attendants should wear disposable gloves when using cleaning chemicals. Housekeeping attendants generally alert their manager when cleaning-chemical inventory is low and do not complete the purchase order. When mixing or using toxic or strong cleaning chemicals, eye goggles or ventilation masks may need to be used. It is not necessary for attendants to keep a log of ingredients found in the cleaning materials; the ingredients are listed on the cleanser storage containers. 
SOURCE: OP:134 Practice safe and sanitary handling/disposal of wastes/recyclables
SOURCE: OSHA. (n.d.). Housekeeping. Retrieved August 4, 2023, from
https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/etools/hospital/housekeeping/housekeeping.html 30. B Cooking class. Service recommendations need to fit the needs of the customer. In this case, one of the customers lacks the mobility needed for parasailing, horseback riding, or raft riding. A cooking class would suit the senior couple's mobility limitations. 
SOURCE: SE:221 Recommend hospitality and tourism services
SOURCE: Holland America Line. (2023). Activities. Retrieved August 4, 2023, from
https://www.hollandamerica.com/en_US/onboard-activities.html 31. C Reduce break-ins and ensure room security. The ability to reprogram keycards allows hotels to strengthen their overall security by reducing the chance of room break-ins. Room keys that can be remotely deactivated decrease the chance of a potential thief gaining access to a guest room. Keycards that can be reprogrammed do not necessarily help hotels screen potential guests for security risks, recover more lost keycards, or improve after-hours services. 
SOURCE: OP:115 Explain security considerations in the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: Koorsen Fire & Security. (2016, September 16). How the hospitality industry tackles security risks.
Retrieved August 4, 2023, from https://blog.koorsen.com/2016/09/how-the-hospitality-industrytackles-security-risks HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 8 32. C Shut off air conditioners. When fires occur, hotel employees should determine whether they can control the fire themselves. If not, they need to contact the fire department, shut off the air conditioning to keep the smoke from filtering into other parts of the property, close windows and doors to keep the fire from spreading, and shut off the fuel to gas-powered equipment. Since the employees have already determined that they cannot contain the fire themselves, they should not take time to attempt using fire extinguishers. 
SOURCE: OP:119 Handle emergency situations in hospitality and tourism
SOURCE: Setupmyhotel.com. (2023). Fire emergency plan and procedure - hotel. Retrieved August 4, 2023,
from https://setupmyhotel.com/train-my-hotel-staff/securityandloss/722-hotel-fire-emergency-planand-procedures.html 33. A Impulsive spending. Many situations can prevent individuals from reaching their financial goals. When people lose their jobs or need to get their cars fixed, their financial goals may be temporarily sidetracked. Overuse of credit cards can also affect an individual's ability to achieve their financial goals. An individual who must pay off credit card debt has less money available to save and invest. In Max's situation, impulsive spending derailed his financial goals. He saw something that he wanted right away, so he bought it without thinking about the consequences. It will likely take Max longer to reach his savings goal. A video game is considered a want, not a need, so unexpected needs did not hinder Max from reaching his goal. Max did not lose income; he simply chose to spend his earnings impulsively. 
SOURCE: FI:065 Set financial goals
SOURCE: Christensen, T. (2022, April 6). Impulse spending explained. Retrieved August 3, 2023, from
https://moneyfit.org/impulse-spending 34. D Equal pay for men and women. The Equal Pay Act mandates equal pay for men and women performing similar job tasks. Email and internet privacy when working on an employer's computer system is not guaranteed, nor is paid time off for jury duty legally mandated. Overtime pay is a basic right to most employees but does not include some professionals, managers, and other employees. 
SOURCE: PD:021 Explain the rights of workers
SOURCE: Inc. (2023). Employee rights. Retrieved August 3, 2023,
from http://www.inc.com/encyclopedia/employee-rights.html 35. D Take the criticism seriously. You should listen carefully to criticism, even though you may not like what you are hearing. The speaker thinks the criticism is valid and expects you to take it seriously. Listening carefully does not indicate that you know you have made a mistake, that you don't have any questions, or that you believe the criticism is valid. 
SOURCE: EI:003 Explain the use of feedback for personal growth
SOURCE: LAP-EI-903—Grin and Bear It (Using Feedback for Personal Growth)
36. A Arranging an office space. Organizing involves activities such as allocating tasks, resources, and facilities. Arranging an office space is an example of allocating facilities. Hiring employees and training staff would fall under the staffing function of management. Writing a marketing plan would fall under the planning function of management. 
SOURCE: SM:064 Explain managerial considerations in organizing
SOURCE: LAP-SM-064—Put It All Together (Managerial Considerations in Organizing)
HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 9 37. A Cash reconciliation. Cash reconciliation is the process of verifying the amount of cash in a register at the end of a business day. It allows businesses to keep track of cash flow. The manager of a restaurant should perform cash reconciliation before closing the restaurant down for the night. Bank reconciliation, internal audits, and financial ratio analysis are not completed on a nightly basis. 
SOURCE: FI:396 Reconcile cash
SOURCE: Bragg, S. (2023, June 19). Cash reconciliation definition. Retrieved August 4, 2023, from
https://www.accountingtools.com/articles/what-is-a-cash-reconciliation.html 38. D Most goals can't be reached alone. Sharing the power means recognizing that most goals cannot be reached alone and engaging followers in meaningful work. Sharing the power does not mean that a leader doesn't trust their subordinates, doesn't think that their followers will do a good job, or that they won't meet goals as quickly. 
SOURCE: EI:135 Use power appropriately
SOURCE: LAP-EI-135—Power Play (Using Power Appropriately)
39. B Ask a coworker to help him fill in the blanks. It can be difficult to capture everything important when taking notes. If Trent realizes that his meeting notes are incomplete, he should ask a coworker who was also in the meeting to help him fill in what he is missing. While it's a good idea to tackle assigned tasks after a meeting, this will not necessarily help Trent deal with the missing information in his notes. Using a consistent, logical notetaking format is an effective strategy, but it will not help Trent after the fact when he is missing important information. Condensing what he has written to be more concise will not help Trent fill in the missing information. 
SOURCE: CO:085 Utilize note-taking strategies
SOURCE: Slatta, R. (n.d.). Strategies for effective listening & notetaking. Retrieved August 2, 2023,
from https://faculty.chass.ncsu.edu/slatta/hi216/takenotes.htm 40. B Bad timing. If Jenny asks for a raise in her allowance right after her mother has been laid off from her job, the communication barrier of bad timing is likely to result. Jenny's parents may want to give her the money but just may not be able to at the time. The communication barriers of language, environment, and information overload would not result from this situation. 
SOURCE: EI:007 Explain the nature of effective communications
SOURCE: LAP-EI-140—More Than Just Talk (Effective Communication)
41. A Developing company goals and objectives. The first step in the managerial planning process involves establishing company goals and objectives. After establishing these goals, managers can identify the tasks and resources (money and staff) needed to reach those goals and objectives. Managers should then prioritize their goals and associated tasks so that staff understand where to focus their time and energy. Finally, managers should develop and implement methods to evaluate progress toward organizational goals and objectives. 
SOURCE: SM:063 Discuss the nature of managerial planning
SOURCE: Gartenstein, D. (2019, February 4). The basic steps in the management planning process. Retrieved
August 4, 2023, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/basic-steps-management-planning-process17646.html HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 10 42. B Concentrating on remembering what the speaker says. One technique people use to improve listening skills is to make a conscious effort to try to focus and remember what the speaker says. Staying focused on the message and filtering out noise as much as possible improves the chances of remembering and accurately understanding the message. Listeners may want to be aware of their own body language (e.g., facial expressions, crossed arms) because their nonverbal cues are also being interpreted by the speaker and can affect communication. However, monitoring one's own nonverbal cues does not necessarily mean that the listener takes control of the conversation. Thinking about how to respond to messages while the speaker is talking is a barrier to active listening. To decipher a message accurately, the listener must not only pay attention to the speaker's words but also to their nonverbal cues and voice tone. Nonverbal cues are not necessarily more important than tone of voice. 
SOURCE: CO:017 Demonstrate active listening skills
SOURCE: Hatter, K. (2021). How to improve active listening skills in business situations. Retrieved August 2,
2023, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/improve-active-listening-skills-business-situations20192.html 43. A Diffusing the customer's anger. In the hospitality and tourism industry, it is important to know how to resolve conflicts with customers who are unhappy with the service. One of the first steps is diffusing anger because it is difficult to resolve conflict when one or more parties is angry. Petra is diffusing anger by remaining calm, listening, and expressing sympathy. In this example, Petra is not solving the problem, deferring to authority, or avoiding the conflict completely. 
SOURCE: CR:044 Resolve hospitality and tourism related conflicts for customers
SOURCE: Customer Traac. (2022). How to deal with angry customers and diffuse the situation. Retrieved
August 4, 2023, from https://customertraac.com/diffuse-angry-customers/ 44. B Assets. Items of value are called assets on balance sheets. Liabilities are debts. Owner's equity is what's left over after liabilities have been subtracted from assets. The notes section of the balance sheet contains additional, relevant information, such as notes about what types of accounting policies were used. 
SOURCE: FI:093 Explain the nature of balance sheets
SOURCE: LAP-FI-093—The Right Balance (The Nature of Balance Sheets)
45. A Elastic. Elastic demand is a form of demand for products in which changes in price correspond to changes in demand. Demand is inelastic when a change in price does not significantly affect demand. Inelastic demand exists if the demand for a product is constant, or ongoing. Demand is not described as competitive, but it is affected by competition. Products are more likely to have elastic demand if competitive products are available for consumers to purchase. 
SOURCE: EC:005 Explain the principles of supply and demand
SOURCE: LAP-EC-011—It's the Law (Supply and Demand)
HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 11 46. C Reduced sales. The location of a sports or entertainment facility often has an effect on sales. If consumers feel that a facility is located in an unsafe area, they may be reluctant to purchase tickets to events. This would result in reduced sales. Event promoters should be aware of consumers' concerns for safety and schedule events in appropriate facilities. The location of a facility does not necessarily limit access or decrease parking. The length of an event would not be shortened because of the facility's location. 
SOURCE: SM:076 Conduct a risk assessment of an event
SOURCE: Superevent. (2023). 13 important things to consider when choosing your event venue. Retrieved
August 3, 2023, from https://superevent.com/blog/13-important-things-to-consider-when-choosingyour-event-venue/ 47. D Credit cards have high processing fees. When businesses accept credit cards, they are required to give some of the money from each sale they make to several third parties—such as the card provider, the banks that are involved, and various credit card associations. These processing fees can sometimes make accepting credit cards too expensive for small businesses that sell inexpensive items like breakfast foods. It is unlikely that the cafe decided to refuse credit cards because the owners are old, because residents never carry credit cards, or due to town restrictions. 
SOURCE: FI:790 Calculate credit-card processing costs
SOURCE: Williams, R. (2022, August 15). Credit card processing fees and costs. Retrieved August 4, 2023,
from https://www.valuepenguin.com/what-credit-card-processing-fees-costs 48. D Automation. Automation is the use of robots or other automatic equipment to do certain tasks. A business might make up for the shortage of qualified workers by relying more on the use of automated equipment or machinery. For example, the use of automatic phone systems often eliminates the need for a business to hire experienced phone operators. Production is the process or activity of producing goods and services. Specialization is the process of making the best use of resources in the production of goods and services. Conservation is the preservation and protection of resources and usually refers to natural resources rather than human resources. 
SOURCE: EC:003 Explain the concept of economic resources
SOURCE: LAP-EC-903—Be Resourceful (Economic Resources)
49. B Intangible. The products offered by the hospitality and tourism industry are services and experiences—not concrete goods. Instead of receiving tangible items for their money, the buyer receives a trip, hotel stay, or experience that they hope will be pleasant and memorable. The services offered by the hospitality and tourism industry are perishable, meaning that they cannot be stored for later sale or use. Just as fresh produce cannot be kept forever, a cruise vacation or hotel stay must be consumed or used relatively soon after it is purchased. The hospitality and tourism industry is guest- and service-centric, rather than employee-centric. The hospitality and tourism industry is also inseparable, meaning that the services provided cannot be separated from their providers. 
SOURCE: PD:111 Describe the nature of the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: Kurtz, J. (2023). What is the hospitality industry? Retrieved August 4, 2023, from
https://www.webstaurantstore.com/blog/3726/what-is-the-hospitality-industry.html HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 12 50. C Encryption. Software piracy and unauthorized file sharing (e.g., of music) are costly to producers. To protect their ownership rights, these businesses often use encryption techniques to minimize these types of issues. Encryption is the process of transforming information into a secret code so that only the recipient can read it. If the recipient tries to pass along the information to others, the others will not be able to access the information. Virtualization involves running multiple operating systems on one machine. Multicasting transmits streaming media to multiple users simultaneously. Rerouting means changing course or direction. 
SOURCE: NF:076 Explain legal issues associated with information management
SOURCE: Federal Trade Commission. (2023). FTC safeguards rule: What your business needs to know.
Retrieved August 3, 2023, from https://www.ftc.gov/tips-advice/business-center/guidance/financialinstitutions-customer-information-complying 51. B How they are manufactured. Customers are often interested in where products come from and how they are manufactured (e.g., if an item is made in the U.S. and if it’s handcrafted). They are not likely to be interested in the names of manufacturing CEOs, the months and years products were invented, or how many the company has in its inventory. 
SOURCE: SE:062 Acquire product information for use in selling
SOURCE: LAP-SE-062—Get Informed (Acquiring Product Information for Use in Selling)
52. D Make a profit. Making a profit is the main goal of business. Profit is the monetary reward a business owner receives for taking the risk involved in investing in business. By providing the best products possible, business owners increase the likelihood of making a profit. Businesses also need to be socially responsible by helping save the environment and by providing a safe working environment. 
SOURCE: EC:008 Determine the relationship between government and business
SOURCE: LAP-EC-016—Regulate and Protect (Government and Business)
53. B Rent payments. Fixed expenses are costs that stay relatively the same each month. Fixed expenses are generally costs that are required to maintain a decent standard of living, such as rent, car payments, internet service, and trash pickup. Grocery expenses, entertainment costs, and gasoline costs are considered variable expenses because they may vary significantly from month to month. 
SOURCE: FI:066 Develop personal budget
SOURCE: Lake, R. (2022, October 19). Budgets: Everything you need to know. Retrieved August 3, 2023,
from https://www.thebalance.com/how-to-make-a-budget-1289587 54. C Review compliance requirements. Risk is the possibility of loss. Many internal and external factors affect the business's level of risk. Because risk affects the business's financial well-being, it must take steps to minimize risk. The government implements regulations, which are external factors that affect the business. It is important for the business to understand and keep up with the regulations that affect the way the business operates. If the business fails to comply with the regulations, it could be subject to penalties and fines, which can be very costly to the business. Updating customer data, maintaining intranet security, and implementing business policies are ways that the business controls its internal risks. 
SOURCE: RM:058 Discuss the nature of risk control (i.e., internal and external)
SOURCE: Kenton, W. (2023, May 4). Risk control. Retrieved August 4, 2023, from
https://www.investopedia.com/terms/r/risk-control.asp HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 13 55. C So that the information is readily accessible when it is needed. Companies should make inventories of their digital information so that it can be easily accessed when it is needed and so that no important data are lost. It is not necessarily true that employees don't use their computers wisely. Most employees use their computers appropriately and responsibly. Companies do not make inventories of their information to prevent IT professionals from stealing company data or to keep tabs on what employees are doing online. 
SOURCE: OP:517 Comply with strategies for protecting business' digital assets (e.g., website, social media,
email, etc.) 
SOURCE: Auditboard. (2021, June 9). How to protect your digital assets in 2022. Retrieved August 4, 2023,
from https://www.auditboard.com/blog/how-to-protect-your-digital-assets/ 56. A Customers with reservations spend 25% more than other customers. Understanding the relationship between making reservations and spending can help a restaurant focus its sales and promotional efforts on dinner reservations in order to increase sales. Since the tipping of waitstaff, split plates, and payment methods do not increase sales, these data are less helpful. 
SOURCE: NF:288 Monitor hospitality and tourism sales data
SOURCE: Andrews, R. (2023, June 14). Restaurant analytics: 9 ways to grow your revenue with data.
Retrieved August 4, 2023, from https://restaurant.eatapp.co/blog/restaurant-data-and-analyticsincrease-revenue 57. B If the request jeopardizes the safety of others. In general, businesses should try to honor all special needs and specific requests of customers. However, if the request jeopardizes the safety of others (e.g., leaving a security checkpoint unattended), it might be impossible to honor that request. Requests should be honored even if the customer is impolite and demanding. Businesses should honor requests that are unrelated to health. Finally, whether or not a customer is new to the company is unrelated to whether or not their request should be honored. 
SOURCE: CR:054 Accommodate special needs/specific requests of customers
SOURCE: University of Louisiana at Lafayette Office of Disability Services. (2019). Reasonable vs.
unreasonable accommodations. Retrieved August 4, 2023, from https://disability.louisiana.edu/content/faculty-information/reasonable-unreasonableaccommodations 58. D Technology. Many apps and websites allow customers to leave reviews and ratings about their experiences. Therefore, customer service has become even more important in hospitality and tourism. Businesses must provide top-notch service to make sure reviews are positive, which keeps business incoming. Lower prices, less frequent travel, and fewer consumer choices have not increased the importance of customer service in the hospitality and tourism industry. 
SOURCE: CR:043 Describe customer-service challenges in the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: ASK. (2022, September 7). CX challenges in hospitality and travel industries. Retrieved August 3,
2023, from https://www.astutesolutions.com/industry-insights/hospitality-industry HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 14 59. B Psychographic. Psychographic segmentation is based on the lifestyles and personalities of customers. Because Alex demonstrated an interest in a travel show, marketers can deduce that traveling is a part of his lifestyle. Thus, Alex would be an appropriate market for a tropical resort. Behavioral segmentation occurs when customers are grouped based on what they are looking for in a product and why they buy the product. Demographic segmentation divides the market on the basis of physical and social characteristics. Geographic segmentation groups customers based on where they are located. 
SOURCE: MP:003 Explain the concept of market and market identification
SOURCE: LAP-MP-003—Have We Met? (Market Identification)
60. D Observing, questioning, listening. The best way to determine customer needs is to learn more about the customer. Observing includes nonverbal communication that the salesperson can use to better know their customer. Questioning lets the salesperson ask what the customer needs through different types of questions (yes/no, clarifying, open-ended, etc.). Listening is crucial, because if the salesperson asks a question and doesn't listen to the response, the question is useless. Presenting, visualizing, and follow-up usually occur after a customer's needs have been determined. Greeting, modifying, and focusing, as well as canvassing, qualifying, and organizing will not provide as much information about the customer as observing, questioning, and listening. 
SOURCE: SE:500 Determine hospitality and tourism customer/guest needs
SOURCE: Giannotti, F. (2023). Top 10 hospitality and tourism soft skills. Retrieved August 31, 2023,
from https://hospitalityinsights.ehl.edu/top-10-soft-skills-hospitality-tourism 61. B Ask a valet to help them with parking and luggage when they arrive. A guest speaker is an important part of a conference, so you should arrange to make their arrival as easy and stress-free as possible. They plan to eat something on the way to the hotel, so there's no need to keep their entrée warm. Cancelling their presentation or arranging for a video conference call would not be necessary because the speaker is planning to arrive on time for their speech. 
SOURCE: CR:053 Anticipate unspoken customer needs
SOURCE: Social Tables. (2017, November 22). Want to be a hotel event planner? Here's what you should
know first. Retrieved August 4, 2023, from https://www.socialtables.com/blog/event-planning/hotelevent-planner/ 62. A Desire for convenience. Travelers select certain lodging facilities for many reasons or for a combination of reasons. Ms. Woo staying in a hotel across the street from her client's office implies that one reason Ms. Woo selected the hotel was for the convenience of being near the office where she was planning to attend a business meeting. Because there is not enough information revealed about the location or Ms. Woo, it cannot be determined whether additional factors for her selection included relaxation, safety, or prestige. 
SOURCE: SE:220 Explain factors that motivate people to choose a hospitality and tourism site
SOURCE: Tas, G. (2022). How do customers choose hotels? Retrieved August 4, 2023, from
https://www.gourmetmarketing.net/blog/how-do-customers-choose-hotels HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 15 63. A Smiling. A smile conveys a positive message and reinforces good news. Poor posture sends the message that a person doesn't really care about what they are saying. Lack of eye contact, or looking elsewhere, sends a message that the speaker may not be telling the truth or may wish to be doing something else. 
SOURCE: CO:059 Interpret others' nonverbal cues
SOURCE: Boose, G., Robinson, L., Segal, J., & Smith, M. (2020, October). Nonverbal communication and body
language. Retrieved August 2, 2023, from https://www.helpguide.org/articles/relationshipscommunication/nonverbal-communication.htm 64. C Remain patient. It may take some time and work to convince your coworkers that your idea is the best option, so it's important to remain patient. Becoming defensive and rejecting feedback will not help you be objective. Even though you don't want to become defensive, you also shouldn't go to the other extreme and accept defeat when people disagree with you. 
SOURCE: CO:061 Defend ideas objectively
SOURCE: Haddock, P. (2022). Defend your ideas without becoming defensive. Retrieved August 2, 2023,
from https://gohighbrow.com/defend-your-ideas-without-becoming-defensive/ 65. A Mining. Mining, exploration, and extractive industries are heavily regulated by environmental protection agencies to reduce potential air, soil, and water contamination. The education, finance, and merchandising industries are not as likely to be regulated by environmental laws since these industries pose little threat to the environment compared to other industries such as mining. 
SOURCE: BL:073 Discuss the nature of environmental law
SOURCE: Cornell Law School. (2022, December). Environmental law. Retrieved August 2, 2023, from
https://www.law.cornell.edu/wex/environmental_law 66. D Identifying the need for future projects. After evaluating your project results, you might find that your project did not solve all of the problems that it intended to solve. In this case, your project might have created the need for more projects. Figuring out who is to blame for shortcomings, keeping stakeholders from knowing about mistakes, and eliminating the need for customer satisfaction are not benefits of evaluating project success. 
SOURCE: OP:521 Evaluate project success
SOURCE: LAP-OP-521—Making the Grade (Evaluating Project Success)
67. B Gift cards. Gift card sales are an important source of revenue for many types of hospitality businesses. Consumers purchase gift cards for others because the gift recipients can book a reservation where and when they want it, which provides them with flexibility. Hotel chains do not typically sell spa points, contest passes, or keyless cards. 
SOURCE: SE:479 Sell gift certificates in hospitality and tourism
SOURCE: Hochberg, E. (2020, December 7). 11 hotel and Airbnb gift cards to give now so they can use for
future travel. Retrieved August 4, 2023, from https://www.businessinsider.com/best-hotel-airbnb-giftcards HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 16 68. B Quickly. Communication is crucial to recovering a customer who has had a negative experience, and the sooner a business can try to resolve an issue, the less likely a customer will have time to 'stew' on the experience. The medium through which a customer is contacted does not have a direct effect on the likelihood of recovery. Financial compensation might help with guest recovery, but it is not always needed and can be a costly decision. Payment processes should not be a factor in reaching out to try to recover guests. 
SOURCE: CR:045 Explain the nature of guest recovery
SOURCE: Beddow, B. (2019, February 5). The LEARN method of guest recovery. Retrieved August 4, 2023,
from https://bevsight.com/the-learn-method-of-guest-recovery/ 69. C International. International law includes treaties and laws that are created and enforced by organizations such as the United Nations (UN) and the International Criminal Court (ICC). International law deals with agreements between nations and globally accepted standards of behavior in areas such as human rights, refugees, migration, and war. Federal, state, and local are all levels of law, but they are not related to treaties, migration, and war. 
SOURCE: BL:163 Comply with the spirit and intent of laws and regulations
SOURCE: LAP-BL-163—Laying Down the Law (Complying With the Spirit and Intent of Laws and Regulations)
70. A Accurate forecasts. Purchasing depends on other departments for information and expertise so it can do its job well. Purchasing needs to obtain accurate sales forecasts from the sales department before ordering goods and scheduling deliveries. Purchasing relies on sales forecasts, which are predictions of future sales over a specific period of time, to buy the right amount of goods. Pricing policies are guidelines regulating the range of prices for goods and services that businesses offer to customers. Information about production needs is provided by the production department. Information about operating expenses is provided by the finance department. 
SOURCE: OP:015 Explain the nature and scope of purchasing
SOURCE: LAP-OP-015—Buy Right (Purchasing)
71. B Positioning. Positioning is a strategy in which a business creates a certain image or impression of a product in the minds of consumers. By creating and promoting special entrees using local produce, the restaurant is positioning itself as supportive of the local farming community. Test marketing involves introducing the product to a limited market to see how it will be accepted. Licensing means buying permission from another person or company to sell a product. Commercialization is the point at which the product goes into full-scale production, a marketing plan is put in place, service and sales training are conducted, and the product's life cycle begins. 
SOURCE: PM:001 Explain the nature and scope of the product/service management function
SOURCE: LAP-PM-017—Serving Up Products (Nature of Product/Service Management)
HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 17 72. B Footers. A footer is a line of text appearing at the bottom of a presentation slide. A presenter may choose to include the name and date of their presentation in the footer to remind viewers of the focus of the presentation. Slide numbers are also often included in footers for the presenter's and viewers' reference. A header is a line of text or other data that appears at the top of a presentation slide or word processing document. The bibliography slide contains links and sources relevant to the presentation and does not typically have the name or date. Animations are movements added to objects (e.g., text, images) on presentation slides. Transitions are animations added to slides. Transitions dictate how one slide is removed from the screen and replaced with another. The presentation name and date are not typically included in animations or transitions. 
SOURCE: NF:008 Demonstrate basic presentation applications
SOURCE: Microsoft. (2023). Add page numbers, date and time, or footer text to all slides in powerpoint for Mac.
Retrieved August 3, 2023, from https://support.office.com/en-us/article/Add-page-numbers-date-andtime-or-footer-text-to-all-slides-in-PowerPoint-for-Mac-abb23f0c-760a-46ef-940e-be5074d3f287 73. A Place. Place utility is usefulness created by making sure that goods or services are available at the place where they are needed or wanted by consumers. People at the beach would expect to find beach products at the store. Time utility is usefulness created when products are made available at the time they are needed or wanted by consumers. Possession utility is usefulness created when ownership of a product is transferred from the seller to the user. Form utility is usefulness created by altering or changing the form or shape of a good to make it more useful to the consumer. 
SOURCE: EC:004 Determine economic utilities created by business activities
SOURCE: LAP-EC-013—Use It (Economic Utility)
74. D Foreign customs, values, and languages. Launching a brand in other countries requires knowledge, understanding, and sensitivity toward foreign cultures and taboos. Frequently, what is acceptable in one culture is not in another. Product names, promotional approaches, and sometimes even product features themselves may have to be adapted to make them acceptable—and saleable—to foreign customers. The history of brands in foreign countries may provide helpful context but is not a central issue in launching a brand internationally. Understanding brand licensing laws and co-branding practices in foreign countries may provide some helpful context, but are not central issues in launching a brand internationally, unless you one day plan to enter into a specific brand licensing or co-branding arrangement. 
SOURCE: PM:021 Explain the nature of product/service branding
SOURCE: LAP-PM-021—It's a Brand, Brand, Brand World! (Nature of Product Branding)
75. D The short term over the long term. It's human nature to prioritize the short term over the long term. That's why it's so important to consider the long-term consequences of your actions and make the right decisions. It's not necessarily human nature to prioritize school over work, adults over children, or others over yourself. 
SOURCE: EI:137 Assess long-term value and impact of actions on others
SOURCE: LAP-EI-137—Choose for the Future (Assessing the Long-Term Value and Impact of Actions on
Others) HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 18 76. A Delete the other record. Customer records contain contact, billing, and purchasing information. If multiple records for one customer exist, each record may have incomplete or differing information. Having multiple records for one customer in a database can cause confusion for employees and may cause the business to ship goods or send bills to an incorrect address. When a business detects more than one record for a customer, it should place all of the most current information in one record and delete the other record(s) to prevent employees from accessing the wrong record in the future. Reformatting the other or second record, creating a new record, and reorganizing all of the customer records are not actions that prevent a business from having multiple records for one customer in its database. 
SOURCE: NF:002 Maintain customer records
SOURCE: Teamleader Focus. (2023, April 27). Customer data management: How to build a customer
database. Retrieved August 3, 2023, from https://www.teamleader.eu/blog/customer-datamanagement-how-to 77. C Jiffy Parcel Service strives to provide the quickest, most reliable delivery service in the country. Organizational vision refers to the future a company's leaders desire to create. To achieve this vision, Jiffy's leaders and its employees must take specific actions (e.g., set goals, develop efficient processes). Management must communicate the organizational vision to employees so they understand their roles and perform their duties in ways that work toward achieving the organizational vision. Techno-Electronics set a specific sales goal. A project leader who tells their team that it is the most efficient project team in the firm is using positive reinforcement to maintain or boost morale. Departmental members working together to lower business costs are exhibiting teamwork. 
SOURCE: EI:060 Enlist others in working toward a shared vision
SOURCE: LAP-EI-060—Vision Quest (Enlisting Others in Vision)
78. C Analyzing financial transactions. The first step in the accounting cycle is to analyze financial transactions. The accounting process begins with the collection of source documents for the business's financial transactions, which can include sales, purchases, or returns. After collecting this documentation, the business analyzes each transaction, determines the transaction amount, and identifies the accounts that the transaction affects. After this, the transactions can be journalized and posted to ledgers. When the books have been balanced, the business can prepare financial statements. 
SOURCE: FI:085 Explain the concept of accounting
SOURCE: LAP-FI-085—Show Me the Money (Nature of Accounting)
79. A Price. Price is the marketing element requiring marketers to determine the amount of money they will ask in exchange for their products. In the travel and tourism industry, price is closely associated with customers' perceptions of value and worth. If customers think the travel product has value and worth, they are often willing to pay for it. Also, value and worth differ from customer to customer, so what is value to one customer might not be value to another. For example, some people prefer economy hotels because saving money is a value to them. To other people, receiving many services is a value that they are willing to pay for. Profit is the monetary reward a business owner receives for taking the risk involved in investing in a business. Place is the marketing element focusing on considerations in getting a selected product in the right place at the right time. Promotion is a marketing function needed to communicate information about goods, services, images, and ideas to achieve a desired outcome. 
SOURCE: PI:029 Explain the concept of price in the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: Wharton, D. (2022, November 13). 12 tourism pricing problems and how to avoid them. Retrieved
August 31, 2023, from https://www.travellifemedia.com/12-tourism-pricing-problems-how-to-avoid HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 19 80. D Provide employees with specialized training. Businesses can help prevent computer fraud by making sure employees understand how to operate their hardware and software and how to use and protect their own identification codes or passwords. Employees also should be trained not to allow unauthorized individuals to see the computer screen, and to exit a confidential file or turn off the computer if they need to leave their terminals. Using closed-circuit television monitors, hiring professional security guards, and installing electronic sensing systems are ways of preventing shoplifting rather than computer fraud. 
SOURCE: OP:013 Explain routine security precautions
SOURCE: TowneBank. (2023). Training employees to prevent fraud. Retrieved August 3, 2023,
from https://www.townebank.com/business/resources/security/training-employees/ 81. C Open rate. The open rate of an email campaign is the percentage of campaign recipients who opened an email. The click-to-open rate is the percentage of email viewers (those who opened an email) who clicked on a link. An email's bounce rate represents the number of emails that bounced, or could not be delivered. An unsubscribe rate represents the number of campaign recipients who opted out of receiving more emails. Because Iseabail wants to know how many recipients opened and read the most recent email, and is not yet concerned with clicks, she needs the campaign's open rate. 
SOURCE: NF:205 Use analytical tracking tools
SOURCE: Campaign Monitor. (2023). Ultimate email marketing benchmarks for 2022: By industry and day.
Retrieved August 4, 2023, from https://www.campaignmonitor.com/resources/guides/emailmarketing-benchmarks/ 82. C Businesses must look for updated technology all the time. Because new technology is being introduced all the time, businesses must constantly be on the lookout for updated technological tools that will help them be more efficient. All businesses are affected by technology in one way or another. Technology is just one way for a business to compete—it might also compete through pricing strategies, promotional campaigns, etc. Though some target markets may use technology more than others, all target markets are affected by and use technology. 
SOURCE: EC:105 Describe factors that affect the business environment
SOURCE: LAP-EC-105—What's Shakin'? (Factors Affecting the Business Environment)
83. B Herd mentality. A person who decides to wear a certain style of clothing because everyone else is wearing it is demonstrating herd mentality. Groupthink refers to a process that occurs when bad decisions are made by a group because the group’s members fear expressing opinions or suggesting ideas that others may disagree with. Status quo bias refers to a preference to maintain the status quo. Acceptance refers to a conscious decision to personally agree with a practice instead of simply following the crowd. 
SOURCE: EI:134 Challenge the status quo
SOURCE: LAP-EI-134—Unfollow the Crowd (Challenging the Status Quo)
84. D Developing attractive displays. The purpose of the promotion function of marketing is to communicate information about goods, services, images, or ideas to achieve a desired outcome. One way that businesses promote their products is by developing displays that will attract the attention of customers and encourage them to buy. Organizing storage shelves and processing recent shipments are distribution activities. Creating product assortments is a product/service planning activity. 
SOURCE: MK:002 Describe marketing functions and related activities
SOURCE: LAP-MK-002—Work the Big Seven (Marketing Functions)
HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 20 85. D Offer training and professional development. Seasonal employees are usually either new or have not worked in several months, so their customer service skills might be out of practice. The Elegance Pointe resort should train these employees well, as well as offer professional development opportunities so employees can offer excellent service. Seeking out recruiting pools such as college job fairs and expanding full-time roles to take on more responsibility are good ways to handle peaks in demand, but they are not necessarily related to improving seasonal employees' customer service skills. Enforcing a strict termination policy for bad service will not necessarily encourage the employees to provide high-quality service; rather, it might create a culture of fear. 
SOURCE: CR:039 Maintain service standards during peaks in demand
SOURCE: RoomkeyPMS. (2016, October 4). Staffing strategies for peak and off-seasons. Retrieved August 4,
2023, from https://roomkeypms.com/blog/staffing-strategies-peak-off-seasons 86. A Ask the department manager about the policy. If employees are not sure if they can or should work overtime, they should ask their department managers. Generally, department managers can authorize overtime for their subordinates. Departmental policies are not usually posted on the company's website. Overtime policies often vary by department, so asking an employee who works in another department is not an appropriate action to take. If the department manager is unavailable, the employee might ask the human resources manager about overtime policies. 
SOURCE: CO:057 Analyze company resources to ascertain policies and procedures
SOURCE: Nichols, J. (2017, September 26). Labor laws on too much overtime. Retrieved August 2, 2023,
from https://bizfluent.com/how-2076457-create-overtime-policy.html 87. A Questioning and listening. The salesperson must develop their skills in both these areas if they are to be successful. Watching and waiting would be a passive approach to the customer—not likely to result in a sale. While some talking on the part of the salesperson is necessary, coaxing, arguing, persuading, and manipulating should be avoided as forms of high-pressure sales tactics. 
SOURCE: SE:048 Explain the selling process
SOURCE: LAP-SE-048—Set Your Sales (The Selling Process)
88. C A product extension. A product extension is an additional product related to, but different than, the main product. In the example, Fun-Tastic's primary product is a form of entertainment—an amusement park with rides and shows. A water park is also a form of entertainment, but differs from an amusement park because it involves water and swimming activities. A merger occurs when two individual businesses combine to form one organization. Product positioning refers to the consumer's image or impression of a product as compared to that of competitive products. A joint venture is an arrangement that involves two or more businesses entering into a relationship by combining complementary resources such as technology, skills, capital, or distribution channels for the benefit of all parties. A joint-venture relationship is usually short-term or for a single project/transaction. 
SOURCE: PM:099 Explain the nature of product extensions in the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: Odjick, D. (2021, June 24). Product line extensions: What they are, examples, and tips for forming
your strategy. Retrieved August 4, 2023, from https://www.shopify.com/blog/product-line-extensions HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 21 89. A Create demand for. Promotion, which is one function of marketing, includes advertising, selling, publicity, and events, such as giveaways and trade shows. Promoting a hospitality and tourism product through these methods stimulates interest, helping create demand. Distribution channels are outlets through which a product is available to customers, such as wholesale tour operators or retail travel agents. Determining a price is an important marketing decision that should take place before promoting a product. Branding is the aspect of marketing that deals with developing a recognizable name or image for a product or company. 
SOURCE: PR:121 Describe the concept of promotion in the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: Kerkola, H., & Iarygina, E. (2019, January 10). The importance of advertising tourism services on the
internet. Retrieved August 31, 2023, from https://unlimited.hamk.fi/teknologia-ja-liikenne/advertisingtourism-services/ 90. C His company's intranet. An intranet is an internal network similar to the internet that is accessible only by authorized personnel. It is used to access information and communicate with others within an organization. A company intranet often consists of internal databases, which provide computerized storage for information and facts. Businesses typically maintain information in their databases that are relevant to their operations—product specifications, inventory levels, vendor contact information, customer sales records, etc. When an employee needs information, such as the model number of a customer's printer, they can quickly obtain the customer's sales records by accessing data stored on the intranet, which will ensure that the employee orders the correct printer cartridge for their customer. The manufacturer's accounting department, its production manager, and the company's contact directory are unlikely to have the information needed. 
SOURCE: NF:078 Obtain needed information efficiently
SOURCE: Sociabble. (2023, May 31). What is an intranet and does your company need one? Retrieved August
3, 2023, from https://www.sociabble.com/blog/employee-communications/what-is-an-intranet/ 91. A To appeal to the target market. Core values represent the underlying worth of products and the image those products project. Products have value beyond price, and these values often are more important to customers than the price. For example, the core values of one product might include quality construction and a respected reputation. These are the values that appeal to the target market and encourage the target market to buy the products. A business does not communicate the core values of its products to justify the price, develop appropriate advertising, or analyze market research. 
SOURCE: PM:214 Communicate core values of product/service
SOURCE: Bourn, J. (2019, October 3). How to identify and define your core brand values. Retrieved August 4,
2023, from https://jenniferbourn.com/brand-core-values/ 92. B A cafe develops a logo illustrating its core value of using natural ingredients. Branding refers to tactics that establish and promote the identity and unique values of a company and distinguish it from other businesses. Illustrating the use of natural ingredients helps communicate a core business value that distinguishes the cafe from others. Advertising products and selling tickets for special events are examples of a business using promotion. Printing a company logo on disposable paper products helps identify a company, but it does not necessarily help promote its unique values. 
SOURCE: PM:206 Explain the nature of corporate branding
SOURCE: Sisk, A. (2018, June 11). What is the definition of corporate branding? Retrieved August 4, 2023,
from https://bizfluent.com/info-7794760-definition-corporate-branding.html HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 22 93. C Discourage time theft. One of the reasons a business may monitor technology is to discourage time theft, or employees wasting time on personal tasks (emails, games, etc.) instead of being productive in their job tasks. A business would not use technology monitoring to delete unnecessary files, check employees' work, or measure electricity usage. 
SOURCE: OP:190 Discuss the role of ethics in operations
SOURCE: LAP-OP-190—Above Board (Ethics in Operations)
94. D Accurate interpretations. Businesses obtain a variety of information that must be analyzed to make it useful. While manipulating the data for information analysis, businesses should try to interpret them accurately to obtain information that will answer specific marketing questions. Many times, businesses can manipulate the data to obtain the answers they want. This practice will not help them solve problems or make good decisions if they interpret the data inaccurately. Exploratory research is a method of obtaining information. Secondary information is information that has already been collected for another purpose. Businesses develop a research program before interpreting data. 
SOURCE: NF:185 Use database for information analysis
SOURCE: Spacey, J. (2018, August 27). 10 types of information analysis. Retrieved August 4, 2023,
from https://simplicable.com/new/information-analysis 95. B Away from the competition. One category of buying motives is known as patronage motives and includes such reasons as customer service and quality of merchandise. Because of patronage motives, a customer makes purchases in one store rather than in another. Information was not provided about lower prices, seasonal sales, or advertised specials. 
SOURCE: SE:076 Explain the role of customer service as a component of selling relationships
SOURCE: LAP-SE-076—Go Beyond the Sale (Customer Service in Selling)
96. D Demographics from a census report. Secondary research is research that already exists. An example is a governmental census report that can provide demographic information about certain areas. This research can help the restaurant owner figure out if a certain city is an appropriate target market for expansion. A survey about the eating habits of people in the city, a focus group with other restaurant owners in the city, and interviews with current employees are examples of primary research, not secondary research. 
SOURCE: NF:281 Explain sources of secondary hospitality and tourism information
SOURCE: Destination BC. (2018, July). Research guide for tourism operators. Retrieved August 4, 2023, from
https://www.destinationbc.ca/content/uploads/2018/07/TBE-Guide-Research-Guide-For-TourismOperators-Mar-2015.pdf 97. B Higher inflation rates. Environmental scanning is the process of collecting information about the environment surrounding your business. Higher inflation rates are an economic factor that might be identified as part of an environmental scan. Increased general competition is a competition trend that may be identified during an environmental scan. Changing state and local laws are a political/governmental factor that might be identified. Companies going green is a society and culture trend. 
SOURCE: NF:015 Conduct an environmental scan to obtain business information
SOURCE: LAP-NF-015—Get the 4-1-1 (Conducting an Environmental Scan)
HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 23 98. C Guide the actions of others. Individuals who are leaders not only have the ability to decide what needs to be done, but they can guide the actions of others to do the work. Good leaders generally plan and organize their work, but that is not what makes them good leaders. Analyzing employee productivity is often a responsibility of leaders rather than a personality trait. Displaying empathy by feeling what others are feeling is a desirable personality trait but does not indicate leadership. 
SOURCE: EI:018 Identify desirable personality traits important to business
SOURCE: LAP-EI-009—You've Got Personality (Personality Traits in Business)
99. C Scheduled. Mike has made a time plan for the week, listing the days when planned activities are to be performed. Classifying is determining the frequency of performance. Prioritizing is listing the importance of each activity. Performing is carrying out the actual activity. 
SOURCE: PD:019 Use time-management skills
SOURCE: LAP-PD-019—About Time (Time Management)
100. C Cut costs. In some cases, the amount of money you think you will need will not be possible to obtain. When this happens, the most realistic approach is to look for ways to cut costs. If your ideal budget is based on getting everything you want or would like to have, consider substituting inexpensive materials for costly ones or making do without some supplies. By cutting costs, you will be able to proceed with the project. It is not necessary to lower your expectations because, in most cases, you will be able to complete the project by making some substitutions. Decreasing the amount of time that is allotted for the project will not necessarily make up for a lack of funding. Eliminating the project is not a good choice, either. 
SOURCE: OP:003 Identify resources needed for project
SOURCE: LAP-OP-003—Get What You Need (Identifying Project Resources)

21. Which of the following statements is true about self-esteem: 
A. To build self-esteem, individuals must value their abilities above others' abilities.
B. Low self-esteem usually motivates a person to try harder and strive for success.
C. Your level of self-esteem depends on your ability to accept yourself as you are.
D. To have high self-esteem, you must be willing to overlook your faults and weaknesses.

21. C
Your level of self-esteem depends on your ability to accept yourself as you are. Self-esteem is how you feel about yourself at any given time. Your level of self-esteem can fluctuate from time to time; however, if you have an overall high level of self-esteem, you can accept yourself as you are—both your positive and negative qualities. Having good self-esteem does not mean that you overlook your faults, weaknesses and mistakes; rather, you recognize them and strive to improve over time. A person with high self-esteem has the ability to recognize others' abilities and accomplishments without feeling threatened or discouraged about their own abilities and accomplishments. Many people who have low self-esteem do not trust their own abilities and are less likely to try harder or strive for success because they fear they will fail. 
SOURCE: EI:016 Explain the concept of self-esteem
SOURCE: Mind. (2023). Self-esteem. Retrieved August 15, 2023, from https://www.mind.org.uk/informationsupport/types-of-mental-health-problems/self-esteem/about-self-esteem/

35. One of the reasons you should listen to criticism carefully is that it shows that you 
A. don't have any questions.
B. know you have made a mistake.
C. believe the criticism is valid.
D. take the criticism seriously.

35. D
Take the criticism seriously. You should listen carefully to criticism, even though you may not like what you are hearing. The speaker thinks the criticism is valid and expects you to take it seriously. Listening carefully does not indicate that you know you have made a mistake, that you don't have any questions, or that you believe the criticism is valid. 
SOURCE: EI:003 Explain the use of feedback for personal growth
SOURCE: LAP-EI-903—Grin and Bear It (Using Feedback for Personal Growth)

38. Leaders that share their power recognize that 
A. they won't meet their goals as quickly.
B. they can't trust their subordinates.
C. their followers won't do a good job.
D. most goals can't be reached alone.

38. D
Most goals can't be reached alone. Sharing the power means recognizing that most goals cannot be reached alone and engaging followers in meaningful work. Sharing the power does not mean that a leader doesn't trust their subordinates, doesn't think that their followers will do a good job, or that they won't meet goals as quickly. 
SOURCE: EI:135 Use power appropriately
SOURCE: LAP-EI-135—Power Play (Using Power Appropriately)

40. Jenny wants to talk to her parents about a raise in her allowance, but then she finds out that her mother has just been laid off from her job. If she asks for the money anyway, which communication barrier is likely to result? 
A. Environment
B. Bad timing
C. Language
D. Information overload

40. B
Bad timing. If Jenny asks for a raise in her allowance right after her mother has been laid off from her job, the communication barrier of bad timing is likely to result. Jenny's parents may want to give her the money but just may not be able to at the time. The communication barriers of language, environment, and information overload would not result from this situation. 
SOURCE: EI:007 Explain the nature of effective communications
SOURCE: LAP-EI-140—More Than Just Talk (Effective Communication)

75. It's human nature to prioritize 
A. others over yourself.
B. adults over children.
C. your school over your work.
D. the short term over the long term.

75. D
The short term over the long term. It's human nature to prioritize the short term over the long term. That's why it's so important to consider the long-term consequences of your actions and make the right decisions. It's not necessarily human nature to prioritize school over work, adults over children, or others over yourself. 
SOURCE: EI:137 Assess long-term value and impact of actions on others
SOURCE: LAP-EI-137—Choose for the Future (Assessing the Long-Term Value and Impact of Actions on
Others) HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 18 

77. Which of the following is an example of an organizational vision: 
A. A project leader generates team enthusiasm by stating, “We're the most efficient project team in the firm.”
B. Techno-Electronics hopes to increase its market share by 15% in the next year.
C. Jiffy Parcel Service strives to provide the quickest, most reliable delivery service in the country.
D. The members of the production department work together to help the business lower its operating costs.

77. C
Jiffy Parcel Service strives to provide the quickest, most reliable delivery service in the country. Organizational vision refers to the future a company's leaders desire to create. To achieve this vision, Jiffy's leaders and its employees must take specific actions (e.g., set goals, develop efficient processes). Management must communicate the organizational vision to employees so they understand their roles and perform their duties in ways that work toward achieving the organizational vision. Techno-Electronics set a specific sales goal. A project leader who tells their team that it is the most efficient project team in the firm is using positive reinforcement to maintain or boost morale. Departmental members working together to lower business costs are exhibiting teamwork. 
SOURCE: EI:060 Enlist others in working toward a shared vision
SOURCE: LAP-EI-060—Vision Quest (Enlisting Others in Vision)

83. If a person starts wearing a certain style of clothing because everyone else is wearing it, they are demonstrating 
A. status quo bias.
B. herd mentality.
C. acceptance.
D. groupthink.

83. B
Herd mentality. A person who decides to wear a certain style of clothing because everyone else is wearing it is demonstrating herd mentality. Groupthink refers to a process that occurs when bad decisions are made by a group because the group’s members fear expressing opinions or suggesting ideas that others may disagree with. Status quo bias refers to a preference to maintain the status quo. Acceptance refers to a conscious decision to personally agree with a practice instead of simply following the crowd. 
SOURCE: EI:134 Challenge the status quo
SOURCE: LAP-EI-134—Unfollow the Crowd (Challenging the Status Quo)

98. An important personality trait is leadership, which is demonstrated by individuals when they 
A. feel what others are feeling.
B. analyze employee productivity.
C. guide the actions of others.
D. plan and organize their work.

98. C
Guide the actions of others. Individuals who are leaders not only have the ability to decide what needs to be done, but they can guide the actions of others to do the work. Good leaders generally plan and organize their work, but that is not what makes them good leaders. Analyzing employee productivity is often a responsibility of leaders rather than a personality trait. Displaying empathy by feeling what others are feeling is a desirable personality trait but does not indicate leadership. 
SOURCE: EI:018 Identify desirable personality traits important to business
SOURCE: LAP-EI-009—You've Got Personality (Personality Traits in Business)

13. If you model ethical behavior, which of the following is a possible result: 
A. You will form positive relationships.
B. You will be less confident in your choices.
C. You will be respected, but not trusted, by others.
D. You will be less likely to achieve success.

13. A
You will form positive relationships. When people behave ethically, they make good decisions, form positive relationships, and are more likely to achieve success. If you demonstrate ethical behavior, you will be respected and trusted by those around you. You will also be happier and more confident in your choices and actions. 
SOURCE: EI:132 Model ethical behavior
SOURCE: LAP-EI-132—Practice What You Preach (Modeling Ethical Behavior)

23. Conner’s basketball coach recommends a new shot form that is more efficient and accurate. However, Conner still prefers his own jump shot form. Conner is demonstrating 
A. status quo bias.
B. groupthink.
C. herd mentality.
D. competitive spirit.

23. A
Status quo bias. Conner prefers the current method of doing things, demonstrating a bias for the status quo. Herd mentality refers to a mob or pack mentality that causes people to be influenced by others or to adopt certain behaviors. Groupthink refers to a process that occurs when bad decisions are made by a group because the group’s members fear expressing opinions or suggesting ideas that others may disagree with. Conner is not demonstrating a competitive spirit because he is not listening to his coach and is choosing a less effective method of play. 
SOURCE: EI:134 Challenge the status quo
SOURCE: LAP-EI-134—Unfollow the Crowd (Challenging the Status Quo)

28. Which of the following are important personal traits one must have to be successful in the hospitality and tourism industry: 
A. A great attitude and inflexibility
B. Communication skills and tech illiteracy
C. Selfishness and empathy
D. Attention to detail and enthusiasm

28. D
Attention to detail and enthusiasm. To be successful in the hospitality and tourism industry, one should have good attention to detail and demonstrate enthusiasm. Other traits that can help someone be successful in the hospitality and tourism industry include demonstrating a great attitude, empathy, flexibility, tech-savviness, selflessness, and a strong work ethic; communication, leadership, and people skills; and the ability to work well in teams. Inflexibility, tech illiteracy, and selfishness are not important traits one must have to be successful in the hospitality and tourism industry. 
SOURCE: EI:090 Describe personal traits important to success in hospitality and tourism
SOURCE: Soeg Jobs. (2018, July 18). 10 essential skills and qualities of outstanding hospitality employees.
Retrieved November 16, 2023, from https://www.soegjobs.com/top-10-qualities-great-hospitalityemployee 

48. Collaboration often means team members must rely on each other and work in a(n) __________ way. 
A. independent
B. competitive
C. interdependent
D. solitary

48. C
Interdependent. Interdependency involves people relying on each other to accomplish a task. Collaboration multiplies the talent, knowledge, and resources available by allowing individuals to work as interdependent team members. When people work in an interdependent way, they rely on each other. Team members brainstorm, share information, and complete tasks together. By combining their skills and knowledge, they can achieve more and complete the project in less time. Collaboration does not typically mean team members work in independent, solitary, or competitive ways. 
SOURCE: EI:130 Collaborate with others
SOURCE: LAP-EI-130—Genius Is a Team Sport (Collaborating With Others)

50. Being respectful helps encourage 
A. heated arguments.
B. the status quo.
C. constructive dialogue.
D. universal agreement.

50. C
Constructive dialogue. If you show respect to other people and viewpoints, other people will respect you and your opinions in return. This leads to constructive dialogue (a conversation that is positive and helpful). Respectfulness should work to prevent heated arguments, not encourage them. Being respectful to each other does not necessarily mean that everyone will agree, nor does it encourage the existing state of affairs. Openminded and respectful conversations indicate a willingness to challenge the status quo if need be. 
SOURCE: EI:136 Consider conflicting viewpoints
SOURCE: LAP-EI-136—Pick a Side (Considering Conflicting Viewpoints)

72. Which of the following is an example of an extensive decision: 
A. Choosing a college to attend
B. Playing basketball with friends
C. Determining what to eat for lunch
D. Selecting what planner to buy

72. A
Choosing a college to attend. Extensive decisions are big decisions that carry risk and can have a long-term impact. Choosing a college to attend is a substantial investment, both in regard to money and time. Choosing what to eat for lunch and playing basketball are considered routine decisions because they are everyday actions. Selecting what planner to buy is a limited decision because it is made infrequently and requires some consideration. 
SOURCE: EI:091 Assess risks of personal decisions
SOURCE: LAP-EI-091—Worth the Risk (Assessing Risks of Personal Decisions)

81. Which of the following are three traits that could help you tolerate uncertainty and ambiguity: 
A. Patience, accountability, cowardice
B. Self-confidence, optimism, caution
C. Creativity, bias, calmness
D. Pessimism, flexibility, fortitude

81. B
Self-confidence, optimism, caution. Three traits that could help you tolerate uncertainty and ambiguity are selfconfidence, optimism, and caution. Other traits that could help include patience, accountability, flexibility, creativity, fortitude, calmness, and open-mindedness. Cowardice, pessimism, and bias are not traits that could help you tolerate uncertainty and ambiguity. 
SOURCE: EI:092 Develop tolerance for ambiguity
SOURCE: LAP-EI-092—Embrace the Unknown (Developing a Tolerance for Ambiguity)

16. Employers should care about limiting employee stress because high stress in the workplace can contribute to 
A. less employee turnover.
B. more absenteeism.
C. lower health care costs.
D. increased productivity.

16. B
More absenteeism. Stress can lead to absenteeism and tardiness at work. When absent workers are the norm, employers have a hard time relying on employees, adhering to deadlines, and getting work done. Employers, therefore, should take steps to limit employee stress as much as they can. High stress in the workplace also leads to decreased productivity, increased health care costs, and higher employee turnover. 
SOURCE: EI:028 Explain the nature of stress management
SOURCE: LAP-EI-028—Keep Your Cool (Stress Management)

20. Whitley's ethical beliefs are the same whether she's at work, at school, or hanging out with her friends. Whitley follows 
A. ethical principles.
B. ethical consequences.
C. situational beliefs.
D. popular beliefs.

20. A
Ethical principles. Following ethical principles means Whitley’s ethical beliefs don’t change when she’s in a new situation. She follows the same ethical principles no matter where she is or whom she’s with. Her ethics are not situational and may not be in line with popular beliefs. If Whitley did not behave ethically, she could face negative consequences. 
SOURCE: EI:123 Describe the nature of ethics
SOURCE: LAP-EI-123—Rules to Live By (Nature of Ethics)

25. People that have authority have __________ power. 
A. legitimate
B. coercive
C. expert
D. referent

25. A
Legitimate. People that have authority have legitimate power—the formal or legal right to give directions and commands to others. People with authority may also utilize other forms of power, such as coercive, referent, or expert power, but not necessarily. 
SOURCE: EI:135 Use power appropriately
SOURCE: LAP-EI-135—Power Play (Using Power Appropriately)

28. People with a positive attitude are open-minded, which helps them 
A. develop patience.
B. learn new skills.
C. be intolerant.
D. remain cheerful.

28. B
Learn new skills. People with a positive attitude are open-minded and receptive to new ideas and new ways of doing things. This makes it easier for them to learn new skills, techniques, and methods. Being open-minded does not help individuals remain cheerful or develop patience. Being intolerant is the result of a negative attitude. 
SOURCE: EI:019 Exhibit a positive attitude
SOURCE: LAP-EI-003—Opt for Optimism (Positive Attitude)
HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 7 

37. What personality trait are employees exhibiting by taking time to learn customers' names, talk in terms of customers' careers or hobbies, and listen carefully when customers are talking? 
A. Tact
B. Interest
C. Honesty
D. Enthusiasm

37. B
Interest. Loyal customers are developed by salespeople who show sincere interest in their customers. Salespeople can win friends, as well as sales, by showing interest in customers and their problems. Enthusiasm refers to the excitement that a salesperson shows toward the product being sold. Honest salespeople never misrepresent or knowingly deceive customers. Tact is the skill of being able to do or say the proper thing in any given situation. 
SOURCE: EI:020 Demonstrate interest and enthusiasm
SOURCE: FlippingBook. (2023, August 11). 12 ways to show clients you care. Retrieved September 26, 2023,
from https://flippingbook.com/blog/marketing-tips/showing-clients-you-care HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 9 

47. Leaders who share a belief in justice, a desire to do the right thing, and an awareness of the rights of other people can be said to have 
A. competence.
B. emotional intelligence.
C. credibility.
D. integrity.

47. D
Integrity. People with integrity adhere to an established set of personal ethics and sound moral principles; leaders tend to share a belief in justice, a desire to do the right thing, and an awareness of the rights of other people. Competence, emotional intelligence, and credibility are other, separate leadership characteristics. Competence is the ability to do what needs to be done. Emotional intelligence is the ability to recognize and manage emotions in ourselves and in others. Credibility is how much people believe what you say. 
SOURCE: EI:009 Explain the concept of leadership
SOURCE: LAP-EI-909—Lead the Way (Concept of Leadership)

76. Alicia is trying to persuade members of her work team to implement a new process. Because Alicia used this process with her former employer, she is very knowledgeable and knows what needs to be done to make a smooth transition. The work team is likely to go along with the change because Alicia has 
A. demonstrated empathy.
B. exhibited cultural sensitivity.
C. coached others effectively.
D. established personal credibility.

76. D
Established personal credibility. Credibility is believability. To be able to persuade others, individuals need to be credible so others believe what they say. Individuals who are credible have a reputation of providing accurate information in a fair manner. They are well-informed and use reliable sources to support their opinions and ideas. As a result, others believe them and often are persuaded to do what they want. Because Alicia is an honest person who has prior experience with the process, she has credibility. There is not enough information provided to determine if Alicia has exhibited cultural sensitivity, demonstrated empathy, or coached others effectively. 
SOURCE: EI:012 Persuade others
SOURCE: LAP-EI-912—Win Them Over (Persuading Others)

87. Which of the following personal traits would be considered essential for success in most careers in hospitality and tourism: 
A. Web design skills
B. Mathematical skills
C. Athletic skills
D. Communication skills

87. D
Communication skills. Since careers in hospitality and tourism often require personal interactions, most employees need solid communication skills. Although some careers in hospitality and tourism require mathematical and web design skills, those skills are not required by most hospitality and tourism careers. Athletic skills are generally not needed in hospitality and tourism careers. 
SOURCE: EI:090 Describe personal traits important to success in hospitality and tourism
SOURCE: Giannotti, F. (n.d.). Top 10 hospitality and tourism soft skills. Retrieved September 26, 2023, from
https://hospitalityinsights.ehl.edu/top-10-soft-skills-hospitality-tourism 

91. Which of the following is an example of an open-ended question: 
A. “How can you do better next time?”
B. “Can we meet tomorrow at 4:00 p.m.?”
C. “Are you willing to make the changes I suggested?”
D. “How many times did you practice this week?”

91. A
“How can you do better next time?” “How can you do better next time?” is an open-ended question because it requires more than a “yes,” “no,” or other short response. The other questions are closed-ended questions because they can be answered with a “yes,” “no,” or other short response. 
SOURCE: EI:041 Coach others
SOURCE: LAP-EI-041—Bring Out the Best (Coaching Others)

16. Which of the following best explains the relationship of intrinsic and extrinsic motivation in most developed countries: 
A. Intrinsic motivation is generally more effective than extrinsic motivation.
B. Intrinsic motivation and extrinsic motivation are equally effective.
C. Extrinsic motivation and intrinsic motivation are not effective.
D. Extrinsic motivation is generally more effective than intrinsic motivation.

16. A
Intrinsic motivation is generally more effective than extrinsic motivation. Intrinsic motivation comes from within the individual and is a result of the work or task itself. Extrinsic motivation comes from outside the individual and their work or task. In most developed countries, people tend to have access to basic necessities like food and shelter. As a result, extrinsic motivation isn't as effective as intrinsic motivation. 
SOURCE: EI:059 Motivate team members
SOURCE: LAP-EI-059—Raise Them Up (Motivating Others)

23. Which of the following is an example of prejudice: 
A. Arnie rarely hires women to work as engineers for his company.
B. A juror believes a defendant is guilty before the trial begins.
C. Students compare grades and realize their teacher is unfair.
D. A taxi driver refuses to pick up passengers of a certain ethnicity.

23. B
A juror believes a defendant is guilty before the trial begins. Prejudice is an opinion or judgment that is based on feeling or hearsay, rather than fact. If a juror already has a feeling that the defendant is guilty, without any facts or proof before the trial begins, this is prejudice. There is no indication that the classmates who have compared grades and realized their teacher is unfair are prejudiced. If Arnie rarely hires women to work as engineers for his company, that is discrimination rather than prejudice because it is an action rather than an opinion or judgment. A taxi driver who refuses to pick up passengers of a certain ethnicity is also discriminating rather than just demonstrating prejudiced feelings. 
SOURCE: EI:017 Recognize and overcome personal biases and stereotypes
SOURCE: LAP-EI-917—Don't Jump to Conclusions! (Recognizing and Overcoming Personal Biases and
Stereotypes) 

24. When Trisha's marketing plan doesn't succeed, she does not give up or get upset. Trisha is demonstrating 
A. open-mindedness.
B. creativity.
C. fortitude.
D. caution.

24. C
Fortitude. Fortitude is courage and endurance. In situations that are uncertain, a person with fortitude maintains their strength no matter what goes wrong. Trisha is demonstrating fortitude by refusing to give up. Trisha is not necessarily demonstrating open-mindedness, caution, or creativity. 
SOURCE: EI:092 Develop tolerance for ambiguity
SOURCE: LAP-EI-092—Embrace the Unknown (Developing a Tolerance for Ambiguity)

43. Which of the following actions would demonstrate initiative on the part of an employee who has no customers at the moment: 
A. Doing routine housekeeping
B. Checking their appearance
C. Catching up on company news
D. Paying their bills

43. A
Doing routine housekeeping. Initiative is the willingness to act without having to be told to do so. An employee who demonstrates initiative by carrying out tasks without being asked to do so is appreciated by most employers. The other alternatives are personal activities that should be carried out in the employee's free time. 
SOURCE: EI:024 Demonstrate initiative
SOURCE: LAP-EI-240—Hustle! (Taking Initiative at Work)

48. An indisputable or accepted fact is a(n) 
A. error.
B. deception.
C. truth.
D. ethic.

48. C
Truth. Individuals with honesty and integrity are truthful to others. Ethics are the basic principles by which you live—the philosophy that guides your behavior. Deception is the opposite of truthful, authentic, and honorable. An error is a mistake. 
SOURCE: EI:022 Demonstrate honesty and integrity
SOURCE: LAP-EI-138—Sincerely Yours (Demonstrating Honesty and Integrity)
MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 12 

56. In times of crisis, business leaders are needed to 
A. provide a new vision for an organization.
B. get the business off the ground.
C. encourage overwhelmed employees.
D. lead change.

56. C
Encourage overwhelmed employees. In times of crisis, business leaders are needed to encourage overwhelmed employees and help the organization weather the storm. A crisis isn't the time to provide a new vision or to lead change—these tasks are better accomplished when the business is stable. Getting the business off the ground is an important leadership task when a business is just starting up. 
SOURCE: EI:009 Explain the concept of leadership
SOURCE: LAP-EI-909—Lead the Way (Concept of Leadership)

59. When office arrangements require employees to share space, what do many businesses provide to offer their employees an area for privacy? 
A. Meeting rooms with doors
B. Recreational facilities
C. Individual cubicles
D. Cafeterias with small tables

59. A
Meeting rooms with doors. Space is tight in many businesses, and employees often are required to share offices or work in small cubicles that are noisy or in plain view of others. These types of office arrangements frequently create privacy problems because employees do not have quiet, secluded places to perform their tasks or make sensitive phone calls. Many businesses solve this problem by providing meeting rooms with doors that employees can use to discuss sensitive information with coworkers, talk freely with customers, or be alone to prepare important reports. Individual cubicles create privacy problems because they are usually close together and offer no barrier to noise. Cafeterias and recreational facilities often are crowded and noisy and do not provide private areas for employees. 
SOURCE: EI:029 Respect the privacy of others
SOURCE: Mick, B. (2017, March 15). Defining privacy for the future of workspace design. Retrieved August 2,
2023, from https://www.workdesign.com/2017/03/defining-privacy-future-workspace-design/ 

60. Which of the following is a benefit of being exposed to conflicting viewpoints: 
A. Improved communication skills
B. Ability to win arguments easily
C. Decreased responsibility at work
D. Increased popularity in social circles

60. A
Improved communication skills. When you are able to respect and appreciate other peoples' unique viewpoints, you can have constructive dialogue with people of all backgrounds. You will not necessarily be given less responsibility at work or enjoy increased popularity in your social circles by exposing yourself to conflicting viewpoints. Being exposed to conflicting viewpoints does not give you the ability to win arguments easily. 
SOURCE: EI:136 Consider conflicting viewpoints
SOURCE: LAP-EI-136—Pick a Side (Considering Conflicting Viewpoints)

78. Because Niyah is not a “morning person,” it takes a little while for her to feel alert and focused. Which of the following tasks is best for Niyah to work on when she first arrives at the office: 
A. Prepare a presentation
B. Read email
C. Write a research report
D. Update the departmental budget

78. B
Read email. Most people have times of the day when they feel more energetic and focused. Some people, like Niyah, need a few minutes to get going in the morning. If possible, it is best for these individuals to first work on simple or routine tasks, such as reading email or listening to voicemail messages. When Niyah feels more alert and focused, she is better prepared to work on more cognitive-based or complex tasks, such as updating the departmental budget, writing a research report, or preparing a presentation. 
SOURCE: EI:077 Manage commitments in a timely manner
SOURCE: Lucidchart. (2023). 10 tips for mastering time management at work. Retrieved August 2, 2023, from
https://www.lucidchart.com/blog/time-management-at-work 

28. Employees who prefer to act independently and devise their own solutions will adapt more easily to which of the following management styles: 
A. Authoritarian
B. Democratic
C. Republican
D. Laissez-faire

28. D
Laissez-faire. Laissez-faire is a French term that refers to a philosophy of noninterference, and these supervisors exercise very little control over their workers. Employees who prefer to act independently, devise their own solutions, and make their own plans will adapt more easily to laissez-faire management. Employees who enjoy contributing to a team and working together to solve problems will adapt to democratic managers. Employees who are patient, accepting, and cooperative will adapt to authoritarian managers. Republican management is not a style of management. 
SOURCE: EI:037 Foster positive working relationships
SOURCE: LAP-EI-037—Can You Relate? (Fostering Positive Working Relationships)

38. Wren and Jamil are working together on a project. They decide to split up the work: Jamil is detail-oriented, so he does the research and creates the slideshow, while Wren, who is charismatic and outgoing, plans and delivers the presentation to the class. Because each team member focused on their area of expertise, they end up receiving an ‘A’ on their project. This is an example of what benefit of working in teams? 
A. Shared accountability
B. Exposure to varied skills and talents
C. Social contact
D. More creativity and innovation

38. B
Exposure to varied skills and talents. Allowing people to do what they’re good at increases the odds of success and allows everyone to perform to their best ability. If all team members focus on their areas of expertise, they will feel more comfortable, confident, and motivated to succeed, which leads to a stronger final product. While social contact, more creativity, and shared accountability are benefits of working as part of a team, they were not directly demonstrated in this example. 
SOURCE: EI:045 Participate as a team member
SOURCE: LAP-EI-045—Team Up (Participating as a Team Member)

50. A good example of a vision is __________, while __________ is a goal. 
A. shortening customer wait time; being known for outstanding customer service
B. being the leader in your industry; adding a new product this year
C. increasing sales; increasing sales by 5%.
D. losing ten pounds; eating healthier foods

50. B
Being the leader in your industry; adding a new product this year. Visions and goals are different. A vision involves the big picture, the overarching aim of the organization or team. It is meant to provide inspiration for the future. Goals, on the other hand, are more specific, measurable, and time-bound. Therefore, being a leader in your industry is a vision because it is big-picture. Adding a new product line is a goal because it is specific and could be a small step on the way to achieving that vision. Losing ten pounds and eating healthier foods are both goals. Being known for outstanding customer service is a vision, whereas shortening customer wait time is a goal. Finally, increasing sales and increasing sales by 5% are both goals, rather than visions. 
SOURCE: EI:060 Enlist others in working toward a shared vision
SOURCE: LAP-EI-060—Vision Quest (Enlisting Others in Vision)
2024 HS ICDC MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 12 

72. Which of the following best represents how ambiguity correlates with complexity: 
A. Johnny is in a situation that is too complicated to predict.
B. Pedro is in a situation where there is one right answer.
C. Angela is in a situation she has never been in before.
D. Harper is in a situation without an obvious solution.

72. A
Johnny is in a situation that is too complicated to predict. Ambiguity tends to correlate with three things: novelty, complexity, and insolubility. Complexity is the state of being intricate or complicated. Johnny being in a situation that is too complicated to predict best represents how ambiguity correlates with complexity. Angela being in a situation she has never been in before represents how ambiguity correlates with novelty (newness). Harper being in a situation without an obvious solution represents how ambiguity correlates with insolubility, meaning that there is not one single, obvious solution to a problem. Pedro being in a situation where there is one right answer does not represent ambiguity. 
SOURCE: EI:092 Develop tolerance for ambiguity
SOURCE: LAP-EI-092—Embrace the Unknown (Developing a Tolerance for Ambiguity)
2024 HS ICDC MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 17 

86. Which of the following are most likely consequences of a leader abusing their power: 
A. Decreased productivity and low turnover
B. Lowered morale and decreased productivity
C. Low turnover and increased salary
D. Increased salary and lowered morale

86. B
Lowered morale and decreased productivity. A leader who abuses their power brings down morale by causing followers to feel anxious and intimidated. This can lead to higher turnover in workplaces, since employees are unlikely to remain at a company where they feel threatened or disrespected. Productivity is also harmed when leaders abuse their power as followers lose their motivation and inspiration to do good work. Increased salary is not typically a consequence of a leader abusing their power. 
SOURCE: EI:135 Use power appropriately
SOURCE: LAP-EI-135—Power Play (Using Power Appropriately)

95. Which of the following steps to identifying strengths and weaknesses should occur first: 
A. Observe others whom you admire
B. Ask questions like, “What can I improve?”
C. Complete a personal skills inventory
D. Get input from others around you

95. B
Ask questions like, “What can I improve?” Answering questions like “What can I improve?” and “What are my career goals?” honestly and thoughtfully puts your thought process into motion and helps bring your strengths and weaknesses into clearer focus. This is a good starting point to evaluate what you do well and what you can improve. Getting input from others, observing others, and completing a skills inventory are important steps to identify strengths and weaknesses, but they typically come after asking yourself important questions. 
SOURCE: EI:002 Assess personal strengths and weaknesses
SOURCE: LAP-EI-902—Assess for Success (Assessing Personal Strengths and Weaknesses)
2024 HS ICDC MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 22 

14. To build collaborative relationships with coworkers, it is necessary for each person to 
A. change their personal opinions.
B. be willing to share information.
C. possess the same skills and attitudes.
D. develop a competitive spirit.

14. B
Be willing to share information. Collaboration involves working together in a cooperative manner. It requires honesty, trust, and a willingness to share information to accomplish common goals. It is not necessary for people to possess the same skills and attitudes or to change their values or opinions to effectively collaborate. An overly competitive attitude may hinder collaboration because people may become more interested in their own agendas rather than focusing on the group's goals. 
SOURCE: EI:061 Maintain collaborative partnerships with colleagues
SOURCE: Herrity, J. (2023, March 10). 8 ways to build strong relationships in the workplace. Retrieved
September 18, 2023, from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/how-to-buildrelationships 

21. Which of the following demonstrates responsible behavior on the part of employees: 
A. Being cooperative with coworkers
B. Letting others take the blame for their mistakes
C. Scheduling long meetings
D. Performing pleasant tasks first

21. A
Being cooperative with coworkers. Responsible workers work cooperatively with others and do not create problems for them. They also take the blame for their own mistakes. Performing pleasant tasks before unpleasant ones and scheduling long meetings are not characteristics of responsible behavior. 
SOURCE: EI:021 Demonstrate responsible behavior
SOURCE: LAP-EI-021--Make the Honor Role (Acting Responsibly)

26. If you take a positive approach toward others, you can expect to have 
A. fewer friends.
B. more conflicts.
C. less competition.
D. better relationships.

26. D
Better relationships. Positive people usually have better personal relationships than others because they are cheerful, kind, considerate, and interested in others. This means they have many friends, which makes their lives richer. Being positive does not necessarily increase the number of conflicts they encounter or reduce the amount of competition. 
SOURCE: EI:019 Exhibit a positive attitude
SOURCE: LAP-EI-003--Opt for Optimism (Positive Attitude)

42. A customer asked, "What ties would you suggest with this shirt?" The salesperson responded, "Let me show you some that would look wonderful with it." The salesperson is demonstrating 
A. boredom and indifference.
B. a negative attitude.
C. extensive product knowledge.
D. interest and enthusiasm.

42. D
Interest and enthusiasm. The salesperson has shown an immediate interest in the customer's request and given an enthusiastic response. The salesperson does not have a negative attitude, which would be characterized by boredom and indifference. The extent of their product knowledge cannot be judged by the response to a single question. 
SOURCE: EI:020 Demonstrate interest and enthusiasm
SOURCE: Escalicas, R. (2016, May 15). 3 tips for exceptional customer service. Retrieved September 18,
2023, from https://www.go1.com/blog/post-3-tips-exceptional-customer-service 

43. The major reason why most employees lose their jobs is that they simply lack 
A. technical knowledge.
B. the ability to get along well with others.
C. basic math and verbal skills.
D. the ability to carry out job tasks.

43. B
The ability to get along well with others. Approximately 85% of employees who lose their jobs do so because they are not able to get along well with others. The alternatives may be reasons why persons lose their jobs, but they're not the primary reason. 
SOURCE: EI:037 Foster positive working relationships
SOURCE: LAP-EI-037--Can You Relate? (Fostering Positive Working Relationships)

55. What kind of team would take full responsibility for an entire line of products? 
A. Project team
B. Quality circle
C. Work team
D. Short-term committee

55. C
Work team. A work team is a group of employees who are responsible for carrying out an entire work process. This might include all the steps in producing a product, performing a service, or running a section of the business. A quality circle is a problem-solving group of coworkers who are given work situations or problems to study and discuss to recommend solutions to management. A project team is a team of employees from different parts of the company who are assigned to work together on a specific project. A short-term committee has an immediate goal, such as obtaining speakers for a conference. 
SOURCE: EI:045 Participate as a team member
SOURCE: LAP-EI-045--Team Up (Participating as a Team Member)

72. Which of the following is a belief that is necessary to be assertive: 
A. I have the right to express my feelings any way I choose.
B. I should avoid asking other people for help.
C. I am worthy of my own respect and the respect of others.
D. I should try to agree with everyone.

72. C
I am worthy of my own respect and the respect of others. To be assertive, you need to believe in your own worth, have self-respect, and expect respect from others. You do not have the right to express your feelings in any way you choose if it will offend or hurt others. Being able to ask others for help is a characteristic of assertiveness. It is not always possible to agree with everyone. 
SOURCE: EI:008 Use appropriate assertiveness
SOURCE: LAP-EI-008--Assert Yourself (Assertiveness)
MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 17 

91. Being able to put yourself in another person's place means that you have 
A. perspective.
B. respect.
C. understanding.
D. empathy.

91. D
Empathy. Empathy is the ability to put yourself in another person's place or to relate to the feelings, thoughts, and experiences of other people. Respect is honor and esteem. Perspective is the way in which people view life. Understanding is the ability to comprehend or to think and learn. 
SOURCE: EI:030 Show empathy for others
SOURCE: LAP-EI-030--Have a Heart (Showing Empathy for Others)

