Business Admin Core 2024 Exams

60. A car dealership gives back to its community by hosting charity fundraisers and donating to local organizations. These actions by the car dealership are examples of 
A. competition in the marketplace.
B. technical analysis.
C. corporate social responsibility.
D. systematic random sampling.

60. C
Corporate social responsibility. Corporate social responsibility is an increasingly popular strategy for attracting ethics-minded customers. It involves donating a portion of profits to charity, sponsoring health and wellness initiatives, or giving back to the community in other ways. Competition is a rivalry between two or more businesses competing for customers. While the car dealership may be engaging in competition, hosting fundraisers and donating to local organizations does not necessarily point to competition with other firms. Systematic random sampling is a probability sampling method in which researchers place sampling units into a random list. Technical analysis is a marketing process using historical information from market activity, prices, and volume to evaluate securities and predict future price activity. 
SOURCE: EN:044 Describe the use of business ethics in entrepreneurship
SOURCE: LAP-EN-044—Ethical Excellence (Ethics in Entrepreneurship)

Business Management Administration 2024 Exams

90. Businesses that are built on strong ethical principles are more likely to 
A. avoid legal trouble.
B. go bankrupt.
C. face lawsuits.
D. drive away customers.

90. A
Avoid legal trouble. Businesses that are built on strong ethical principles are much less likely to find themselves in legal trouble down the road. Entrepreneurs who “cheat the system” when starting their businesses risk serious legal trouble in the future. Businesses that are run ethically are less likely to face lawsuits or drive away customers, not more likely. Ethical businesses are not necessarily more likely to go bankrupt than businesses that are run unethically. 
SOURCE: EN:044 Describe the use of business ethics in entrepreneurship
SOURCE: LAP-EN-044—Ethical Excellence (Ethics in Entrepreneurship)
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 21 

Entrepreneurship 2024 Exams

7. Kyra is a business owner who wants to calculate individual employee productivity. She knows that last month, her team of four workers generated $10,000 worth of goods by working 200 hours in an office space measuring 1,000 square feet. What is the labor productivity per employee for the whole month? 
A. $40,000
B. $12.50
C. $800
D. $2,500

7. D
$2,500. Labor productivity is calculated by dividing total output by total input. To calculate the productivity of each employee, divide the output by the number of workers, which equals $2,500 for the whole month ($10,000 / 4 = $2,500). The number of hours worked is not relevant unless you wish to calculate the labor productivity per hour. The size of a workspace is not relevant to labor productivity calculations. 
SOURCE: EN:030 Explain the impact of resource productivity on venture success
SOURCE: Eby, K. (2023, April 17). How to calculate productivity at all levels: Employee, organization, and
software. Retrieved August 11, 2023, from https://www.smartsheet.com/blog/how-calculateproductivity-all-levels-organization-employee-and-software 

12. A local veterinarian decides to add a surgical wing to their office, which will allow them to serve more patients over the coming years. The cost of building the new wing is an example of a(n) 
A. operating expense.
B. expense control.
C. capital expenditure.
D. budget deficit.

12. C
Capital expenditure. A capital expenditure is a one-time purchase that a business makes (e.g., land, building, equipment) that will provide long-term benefits in the future. In this case, the veterinarian's addition of a surgical wing will help grow their practice and ultimately result in more opportunity for profit. Operating expenses are the ongoing, day-to-day costs involved in running a business that are not tied to production. A budget deficit occurs when expenditures exceed revenues, which we have no proof of in this scenario. Expense control includes efforts to maintain or reduce a certain level of spending. 
SOURCE: EN:019 Describe considerations in selecting capital resources
SOURCE: Ross, S. (2023, April 27). CapEx vs OpEx: What's the difference. Retrieved August 11, 2023,
from https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/042415/what-difference-between-operatingexpense-and-capital-expense.asp ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 4 

43. A business owner who plans to exit their business venture by selling it to another company needs to develop the business in a way that 
A. creates value for potential buyers.
B. appeals to a specific company.
C. allows them to maintain control after the purchase.
D. will generate regular income for them after the purchase.

43. A
Creates value for potential buyers. A business owner who plans to sell their company should develop products, employees, and business strategies that will appeal to future buyers. When a business owner sells their business to another company, they typically give up control and no longer earn personal income from it. Developing a business to appeal to one specific company is an ill-advised business strategy because it severely limits the number of potential buyers. 
SOURCE: EN:037 Develop exit strategies
SOURCE: Medina, J. (2021, November 18). Ready to move on? How to create an exit plan for your business.
Retrieved August 11, 2023, from https://www.uschamber.com/co/start/strategy/business-exit-plan 

55. Julia has recently opened her own coffee shop. With all of the time she spends getting the new business up and running, she has missed her daughter's last four soccer games. This is an example of a(n) __________ risk that many entrepreneurs face when starting a business. 
A. technological
B. emotional
C. reputational
D. financial

55. B
Emotional. When starting a new venture, many entrepreneurs need to dedicate time, energy, and resources to getting that business off the ground. As a result, entrepreneurs take many different risks to possibly gain reward. Emotional risks are those that involve feelings or social relationships, such as marital strain or family problems, as demonstrated in this example. Entrepreneurs also take technological, financial, and reputational risks, but those risks are not demonstrated here. 
SOURCE: EN:010 Assess risks associated with venture
SOURCE: Sherman, F. (2019, February 4). Risks of starting a new business. Retrieved August 11, 2023, from
https://smallbusiness.chron.com/risks-starting-new-business-4195.html 

60. What is one reason why many people decide to become entrepreneurs? 
A. Long hours
B. Less risk
C. Flexibility
D. Less responsibility

60. C
Flexibility. Flexibility is a motivator that attracts many budding entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs are their own bosses, and they are able to decide when and where to work and for how long. Flexibility allows an entrepreneur to control and manage time based on individual needs and desires and on the nature of the business. Entrepreneurs often have to work very long hours, but this is not a reason to become an entrepreneur. Entrepreneurs face a great deal of risk and responsibility. 
SOURCE: EN:039 Describe the nature of entrepreneurship
SOURCE: Dang, D. (2021). 10 benefits of being an entrepreneur. Retrieved August 11, 2023,
from https://entrepreneurshipfacts.com/10-benefits-of-being-an-entrepreneur/ 

71. While working as a server, Delia came up with an idea for an automated payment system for restaurants. This is an example of how 
A. it is unethical to copy another business's model.
B. economic trends can help you identify opportunities.
C. work experience can lead to new business ventures.
D. entrepreneurs should focus on completely new industries.

71. C
Work experience can lead to new business ventures. One way that entrepreneurs determine opportunities for new business ventures is through their own work experience. Delia's work experience as a server, for example, helped her determine an opportunity to automate payments in the restaurant industry. This example is not related to economic trends. It is not true that entrepreneurs should focus on completely new industries; many entrepreneurial ventures take place within existing industries, such as in Delia's case. Finally, this example is not related to whether or not it is unethical to copy another business's model. 
SOURCE: EN:004 Determine opportunities for venture creation
SOURCE: Cote, C. (2020, July 21). How to come up with an innovative business idea. Retrieved August 11,
2023, from https://online.hbs.edu/blog/post/how-to-come-up-with-a-business-idea 

76. If a hurricane impacts production at a company's Atlanta plant, it will shift production demands to its plant in Arkansas. This is an example of 
A. continuation planning.
B. sales forecasting.
C. SWOT analysis.
D. risk assessment.

76. A
Continuation planning. Continuation planning is the creation of a strategy to handle threats and risks so that the company can resume operations and functionality without much resource loss. A hurricane is an example of the type of risk that can affect operations and that must be handled in a continuation plan. Moving production demands to a different plant is a way to reduce the loss associated with that risk. This is not an example of a risk assessment, SWOT analysis, or sales forecasting. 
SOURCE: EN:034 Explain the need for continuation planning
SOURCE: Ready.gov. (n.d.). Business continuity plan. Retrieved August 11, 2023,
from https://www.ready.gov/business/implementation/continuity 

84. Ben is hoping to start his own digital marketing business. Which of the following expenditures would fall under the category of “professional fees” when Ben is estimating the costs of starting his company: 
A. Insurance and business permits
B. Computer hardware and software
C. A trademark for his company logo
D. Inventory and raw materials

84. C
A trademark for his company logo. There are various cost categories associated with starting a new business, including the cost of sales, professional fees, technology costs, administrative costs, sales and marketing costs, and wages and benefits. Professional fees include legal costs, such as the costs associated with obtaining patents and trademarks. Inventory and raw materials fall under the cost of sales category. Computer hardware and software fall under the technology category. Insurance and business permits are administrative costs. 
SOURCE: EN:009 Assess start-up requirements
SOURCE: Morah, C. (2022, November 13). Business startup costs: It's in the details. Retrieved August 11,
2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/articles/pf/09/business-startup-costs.asp 

85. An entrepreneurial business owner must 
A. be independently wealthy.
B. dislike business planning.
C. desire regular 40-hour work weeks.
D. have an adventurous spirit.

85. D
Have an adventurous spirit. Entrepreneurs must have an adventurous spirit because they assume a lot of risk and uncertainty, as well as experience excitement and spontaneity. Entrepreneurs do not necessarily have to be independently wealthy, though they should have enough in savings to survive at least a few years without turning a profit. Entrepreneurial business owners should not desire a regular 40-hour work week because entrepreneurs work long and irregular hours. Finally, entrepreneurial business owners need to plan ahead and account for all the resources they will need to start a new business. 
SOURCE: EN:040 Explain the role requirements of entrepreneurs and owners
SOURCE: MasterClass. (2022, April 4). Entrepreneurial spirit: How to foster your entrepreneurialism. Retrieved
August 11, 2023, from https://www.masterclass.com/articles/entrepreneurial-spirit ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 20 

87. Within a startup business or young company, the primary responsibility for acting ethically falls to 
A. the company’s customers.
B. the business’s employees.
C. business investors.
D. the entrepreneur.

87. D
The entrepreneur. The responsibility of acting ethically falls to entrepreneurs. Since their actions directly influence the culture and values of their organizations, wise entrepreneurs do their best to make ethical decisions from the very beginning. They know that their decisions today will set the tone for the entire company tomorrow. Business investors, the business's employees, and customers do not shoulder the primary responsibility for acting ethically. 
SOURCE: EN:044 Describe the use of business ethics in entrepreneurship
SOURCE: LAP-EN-044—Ethical Excellence (Ethics in Entrepreneurship)

93. Charlie has a great idea for a new website, but he isn't sure if there is a demand for it. Charlie needs to 
A. develop his business plan.
B. file for a patent.
C. consult external resources.
D. obtain funding.

93. C
Consult external resources. When entrepreneurs develop a new concept, they often need to consult outside sources to help solidify the idea or generate helpful feedback. If Charlie needs to find out whether there is a demand for his idea, he can consult external resources such as internet resources, mentors, competitors, market trends, etc. Developing a business plan will not necessarily help Charlie know whether there is a demand for his idea; rather, he should know whether or not there is a demand before he develops a business plan. Filing for a patent will not help Charlie know whether there is a demand for his idea. Finally, obtaining funding will not necessarily help Charlie know whether there is demand for his idea; instead, he should know there is demand before he attempts to obtain funding. 
SOURCE: EN:012 Assess the need to use external resources for concept development
SOURCE: Market Research Solutions. (1999-2023). Concept development guide. Retrieved August 11, 2023,
from http://www.powerhomebiz.com/blog/2011/05/business-concept-development/ 

97. Which of the following is an operational issue that entrepreneurs must consider when planning their businesses: 
A. Direct competitors
B. Production process
C. Source of financing
D. Target market

97. B
Production process. Entrepreneurs must consider a number of different issues when planning their businesses. Areas of focus during entrepreneurial planning include operations, finance, law, the market, etc. Operational issues involve the day-to-day activities for continued business functioning. For example, an entrepreneur must determine the way in which the business will produce goods or services for customers. The target market and direct competitors are market considerations that entrepreneurs face when planning their new ventures. The source of financing for the business is a financial consideration. 
SOURCE: EN:007 Describe entrepreneurial planning considerations
SOURCE: Fernando, J. (2023, March 21). 4 factors of production explained with examples. Retrieved August
11, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/f/factors-production.asp 

99. Ben is conducting a feasibility study for a new venture idea. Which of the following questions should Ben ask and answer in terms of the venture's financial considerations: 
A. Is there a real demand for the idea, good, or service?
B. How will the business communicate information about its products?
C. How will the business obtain the money it needs?
D. What regulations is the business likely to encounter?

99. C
How will the business obtain the money it needs? A feasibility study helps a prospective business owner determine if their business idea is viable. When conducting a feasibility study, it is important to consider many factors including the financial, human, and capital resource requirements to get the business up and running. Determining how much money the business needs is a financial consideration. Determining the demand for the idea or product is a market consideration. The regulations that the business is likely to encounter is a legal consideration. The way that the business plans to communicate information about the business and its products relates to promotion. 
SOURCE: EN:038 Determine feasibility of venture ideas
SOURCE: Taylor, J., & Scudder, R. (2022). Leverage a feasibility study into a more efficient product cycle: Four
key advantages. Retrieved August 11, 2023, from http://www.brighthubpm.com/projectplanning/5596-advantages-of-a-feasibility-study/ ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 23 

14. What can an entrepreneur do to adapt to a changing business environment? 
A. Bring in the right people
B. View challenges as obstacles
C. Accept advice from everyone and anyone
D. Be reactive, rather than proactive

14. A
Bring in the right people. One way an entrepreneur can adapt to a changing business environment is to bring in the right people to support them. Entrepreneurs can't do everything by themselves, so it is important they hire talented individuals that can help lighten their workload while also pushing the company forward. It is important for businesses to be proactive rather than reactive when it comes to change. Businesses can be proactive by planning ahead, watching market trends, seeking out information, and asking for help. Rather than accepting advice from everyone and anyone, entrepreneurs should be cautious about who they're getting advice from and should only seek advice from the right people. Entrepreneurs should view challenges as opportunities for growth or puzzles to solve rather than obstacles. Reframing challenges in this way can make it more manageable for entrepreneurs and their team when adapting to change. 
SOURCE: EN:033 Adapt to changes in business environment
SOURCE: Prossack, A. (2022, January 28). How to adapt and thrive in a changing business environment.
Retrieved January 16, 2024, from https://www.forbes.com/sites/ashiraprossack1/2022/01/28/how-toadapt-and-thrive-in-a-changing-business-environment 

15. Businesses that use a harvest strategy __________ spending on an established, yet declining, product to __________ profits. 
A. increase; maximize
B. increase; minimize
C. reduce; minimize
D. reduce; maximize

15. D
Reduce; maximize. Harvesting is a strategy in which a company continues to offer a declining product but reduces its costs as much as possible. Therefore, businesses that use a harvest strategy reduce spending on an established, yet declining, product to maximize profits. Harvesting is typically used toward the end of a product's life cycle when it is deemed that further investment will not boost the product's revenue. It is also used on outdated products while profits are reinvested into newer models or technologies. 
SOURCE: EN:035 Describe methods of venture harvesting
SOURCE: Kenton, W. (2021, February 24). Harvest strategy definition in marketing and investing. Retrieved
January 16, 2024, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/h/harvest-strategy.asp 

18. Which of the following is an advantage of hiring a new employee for a startup: 
A. Onboarding and training
B. Happier customers
C. Additional help
D. Increased profits

18. C
Additional help. It is important for startup businesses to understand the advantages and disadvantages that come with bringing on a new employee. One advantage of hiring a new employee is that they provide additional help, which can allow the startup to better divvy up its workload and increase efficiency. Increased profits and happier customers are not necessarily a result or advantage of hiring a new employee. Onboarding and training are advantages for a new employee at a startup, as they educate the employee and get them up to speed on job duties and how the company operates. However, onboarding and training could be a disadvantage for a startup due to the time commitment. 
SOURCE: EN:017 Explain factors to consider in determining a venture's human-resources needs
SOURCE: Boitnott, J. (2018, April 24). 5 signs it's time to hire your first employee. Retrieved January 16, 2024,
from https://www.inc.com/john-boitnott/5-signs-its-time-to-hire-your-first-employee.html 

39. Which of the following statements about financing a startup business is true: 
A. Startup owners should never invest their own money into their business.
B. Borrowing money from family or friends is a common way for startups to obtain capital.
C. Government grants are not an option for startup companies.
D. It is much easier for a startup to receive funding than an established business.

39. B
Borrowing money from family or friends is a common way for startups to obtain capital. Many startups receive funding from the owner's family members or friends. This is common because family members or friends are much less likely to ask for tax returns, bank statements, and other documents lenders may require. It is much more difficult for startups to receive funding than established businesses, not the other way around. It is common for startup owners to invest some of their own money into their business. Government grants are a great way for startups to receive funding, as there are several federal grant opportunities for small businesses. 
SOURCE: EN:016 Select sources to finance venture creation/start-up
SOURCE: Arora, R. (2023, August 31). How to finance a startup business. Retrieved January 12, 2024, from
https://www.forbes.com/sites/rohitarora/2023/08/31/how-to-fund-a-startup 

41. If a business wants to stay up to date with business and market trends, it should 
A. alter its product mix.
B. hire more employees.
C. read industry trade journals.
D. review its sales history.

41. C
Read industry trade journals. If a business wants to stay up to date with business and market trends, it should read industry trade journals. A trade journal is an industry-specific publication that serves as a valuable resource for professionals to stay up to date on trends within their field. Reviewing its sales history, hiring more employees, and altering its product mix are not ways in which businesses can stay up to date with business and market trends. 
SOURCE: EN:003 Assess global trends and opportunities for business ventures
SOURCE: Howarth, J. (2023, December 12). 8 top entrepreneurship trends (2024-2026). Retrieved January 12,
2024, from https://explodingtopics.com/blog/entrepreneurship-trends 

47. Andrea is looking to take a step back from ownership of her restaurant. However, she would still like to be involved with the business. Which of the following would be the best option for Andrea: 
A. Spend more time away from the restaurant
B. Open a competing restaurant
C. Delegate her tasks to others and micromanage
D. Sell the company to an employee

47. D
Sell the company to an employee. If Andrea wants to take a step back from ownership but still wants to be involved with the restaurant, her best option would be to sell the company to an employee. This is known as an internal exit, or when the business owner sells the organization to an employee. This will allow Andrea to remain involved when the restaurant is sold and steadily transition into a new role with the restaurant. Opening a competing restaurant will not necessarily allow Andrea to take a step back while also staying involved with her current restaurant. Spending more time away from the restaurant would prevent Andrea from staying involved. While delegating her tasks and responsibilities to others is a great way for Andrea to take a step back from ownership, micromanaging the employees or new ownership is not a viable way to stay involved. 
SOURCE: EN:036 Evaluate options for continued venture involvement
SOURCE: Half, R. (2022, Nov. 10). Smooth transition: What happens when a business owner wants to step
back? Retrieved January 16, 2024, from https://www.roberthalf.com/gb/en/insights/research/smoothtransition-what-happens-when-business-owner-wants-step-back 

57. Which of the following is a way in which entrepreneurs can identify new opportunities: 
A. Talking with vendors, but not with customers
B. Focusing solely on their own ideas
C. Revising their operating budgets
D. Networking with other entrepreneurs

57. D
Networking with other entrepreneurs. An opportunity is a circumstance that presents itself as a favorable means to meet an objective. Entrepreneurs can identify new business opportunities by networking with other entrepreneurs, friends, and business associates; attending trade shows; and keeping up to date with trends. Another way entrepreneurs can identify new opportunities is by talking with both vendors and customers. Rather than focusing solely on their own ideas, entrepreneurs should conduct market research, welcome customer feedback, and listen to ideas from employees. Opportunities can often present themselves at any time, but they usually don't happen while doing tasks such as revising operating budgets. 
SOURCE: EN:031 Create processes for ongoing opportunity recognition
SOURCE: Future Learn. (n.d.). What is opportunity recognition? Retrieved January 16, 2024, from
https://www.futurelearn.com/info/courses/technology-entrepreneurship-start-a-newventure/0/steps/45095 2024 HS ICDC ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 15 

60. A company that has a well-designed and organized workflow 
A. has a good public image.
B. stays on top of market trends.
C. eliminates unexpected interruptions.
D. minimizes redundant tasks.

60. D
Minimizes redundant tasks. There are several benefits for companies that develop well-designed and organized workflows, including minimizing redundant and tedious tasks, as well as creating connections between tasks. A well-designed and organized workflow doesn’t necessarily mean the company has a good public image. A welldesigned and organized workflow doesn’t directly contribute to keeping up with market trends, either. Although a well-designed and organized workflow can limit interruptions, it doesn’t eliminate unexpected interruptions. Unexpected interruptions can disrupt any workflow, no matter the company. 
SOURCE: EN:027 Explain methods/processes for organizing workflow
SOURCE: Masternak, W. (2024). Top 5 workflow management tips. Retrieved January 16, 2024, from
https://www.helpdesk.com/learn/top-5-workflow-management-tips-to-organize-your-work 

63. Which of the following is an example of an administrative cost a startup may need to pay: 
A. Trademarks
B. Marketing materials
C. Business permits
D. Software

63. C
Business permits. Startup costs are all of the expenses involved in setting up a new business or introducing a new product to the market. These include several different cost categories, such as cost of sales, professional fees, administrative fees, technology costs, and sales and marketing costs. Business permits are an example of an administrative cost a startup may need to pay. Software is an example of a technology cost. Trademarks are an example of professional fees associated with a new venture. Marketing materials are an example of marketing costs. 
SOURCE: EN:009 Assess start-up requirements
SOURCE: Morah, C. (2022, November 13). Business startup costs: It's in the details. Retrieved January 12,
2024, from https://www.investopedia.com/articles/pf/09/business-startup-costs.asp 

69. Which of the following statements about capital resources is true: 
A. They aid in the creation of products for a short period of time.
B. They include assets that are used in the production of goods.
C. Money in any form is considered a capital resource.
D. All assets are considered capital resources.

69. B
They include assets that are used in the production of goods. Capital resources refer to the assets that are used to manufacture goods and provide services. These can include tools, machines, equipment, and buildings. A wide range of assets are considered capital resources, but not all assets are capital resources. To be considered a capital resource, an asset must relate to the long-term use of an asset in the production of goods and services. In other words, assets are expected to aid in the creation of products for an extended period of time. Money in any form is usually not considered a capital resource, as it allows for the acquisition of a capital resource rather than being the resource. 
SOURCE: EN:020 Identify capital resources needed for the venture
SOURCE: Tatum, M. (2024, January 11). What is a capital resource? Retrieved January 16, 2024, from
https://www.wise-geek.com/what-is-a-capital-resource.htm 2024 HS ICDC ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 18 

77. If a company wants to protect its symbol or design, which of the following protections for intellectual property should it consider: 
A. Trade secret
B. Trademark
C. Patent
D. Copyright

77. B
Trademark. A trademark is a symbol, design, or word used by a producer to identify a good or service and registered with the government to prevent use by others. In other words, a trademark is a brand that is owned by a business, designated by the symbols™ or ®. A copyright is a legal protection of books and other artistic works granted by the government and giving their creators sole rights to them for a certain period of years. A patent is a legal protection of an invention or a process granted by government to its owners for a certain number of years. A trade secret refers to undisclosed or confidential information within a particular business or industry which may be sold or licensed. 
SOURCE: EN:013 Select strategies to protect intellectual property
SOURCE: Martin, E.J. (2024). Everything you need to know about intellectual property. Retrieved January 12,
2024, from https://www.uschamber.com/co/start/strategy/how-to-protect-intellectual-property 2024 HS ICDC ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 20 

81. Which of the following is the final step one should take when conducting a feasibility study: 
A. Perform a market analysis
B. Present study findings
C. Review your work carefully
D. Determine whether you should hire a professional

81. B
Present study findings. A feasibility study is an organized inquiry into the possible success of a business idea or venture. Typically, the final step of a feasibility study is to present it to the appropriate audience in an appropriate way. Determining whether you should hire a professional is the first step of conducting a feasibility study, followed by writing a description of the proposed project or venture and performing a market analysis. After performing a market analysis, the next steps are to outline the financials, create an organizational plan, assess your technical needs, and review your work carefully. After all of this, then it is time to present the feasibility study. 
SOURCE: EN:038 Determine feasibility of venture ideas
SOURCE: LAP-EN-038—Explore the Possibilities (Conducting Feasibility Studies)

87. Under which of the following conditions should a business conduct a feasibility study: 
A. If it wants to study a certain market
B. If it wants to understand its competitors
C. If it needs to fully understand a venture's risks and benefits
D. If it wants to identify its strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats

87. C
If it needs to fully understand a venture's risks and benefits. A feasibility study is an organized inquiry into the possible success of a business idea or venture. Feasibility studies are great for businesses that are looking to fully understand the risks and benefits associated with the proposed ventures. If a business wants to understand its competitors, it should conduct a competitive analysis—the process of comparing a business’s income statement with that of its competitors to see how it is doing by industry standards. A SWOT analysis investigates a business’s strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats in an organized fashion. If a business wants to study a certain market, it should conduct a market analysis—a systematic study of a specific market. 
SOURCE: EN:038 Determine feasibility of venture ideas
SOURCE: LAP-EN-038—Explore the Possibilities (Conducting Feasibility Studies)

99. Purchasing systems can help businesses 
A. promote products.
B. increase social media engagement.
C. recruit employees.
D. maintain efficiency.

99. D
Maintain efficiency. A purchasing system refers to the procedures and technology used to streamline the purchase of products and services. Purchasing systems help businesses maintain efficiency determining what to buy, how much to buy, and when to buy it. Simply put, they ensure businesses only make necessary purchases and at reasonable prices. Purchasing systems do not help businesses recruit employees, promote products, or increase social media engagement. 
SOURCE: EN:025 Explain the need for business systems and procedures
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2023, January 21). Purchasing system in inventory management: Types and examples.
Retrieved January 16, 2024, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/p/purchasing-system.asp 2024 HS ICDC ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 25 

1. Andrew noticed that his sister was having a problem tying her shoes due to severe arthritis in her hands, so he created a device that helps make the task easier for her to perform. Now, Andrew is talking with a manufacturer who is interested in producing and selling the device on a large scale. How does Andrew's entrepreneurial discovery impact society? 
A. It improves the target market's quality of life.
B. It encourages reliance on others.
C. It solves Andrew's financial problems.
D. It creates an unmet need.

1. A
It improves the target market's quality of life. Entrepreneurial discovery is the process of detecting and matching product and market opportunities with one another in a manner that satisfies both the market and the business. During the entrepreneurial-discovery process, Andrew identified a problem that affected his sister's life. Then, he took steps to develop a product to help her perform a task that is challenging for many people who have arthritis—it improves her quality of life. The device increases self-reliance because his sister does not need help tying her shoes. By producing the device on a large scale, the device has the potential to improve others' quality of life, as well. The device satisfies an unmet need rather than creating it. There is not enough information provided to determine if Andrew has financial problems. 
SOURCE: EN:001 Explain the need for entrepreneurial discovery
SOURCE: Trenchard, R. (2015, November 16). What impact do entrepreneurs have on society? Retrieved
October 2, 2023, from https://www.virgin.com/about-virgin/latest/what-impact-do-entrepreneurshave-society 

15. Bryan wants to start his own business, but his partner isn't happy about the family time Bryan will miss while dealing with his new venture. This is an example of a(n) __________ risk that entrepreneurs face. 
A. technology
B. reputational
C. financial
D. emotional

15. D
Emotional. One of the many risks entrepreneurs take when starting a new venture—aside from industry risk, market risk, product risk, financial risk, career risk, etc.—is emotional risk. Emotional risk usually stems from sacrificing home and family life for business work and can lead to marital strain and other family problems. In this scenario, Bryan's partner is displeased about how Bryan's work will affect their family. Financial, technology, and reputational risks are very possible for entrepreneurs, but they are not demonstrated in this scenario. 
SOURCE: EN:010 Assess risks associated with venture
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2022, November 13). What risks does an entrepreneur face? Retrieved October 2, 2023,
from https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/040615/what-risks-does-entrepreneur-face.asp 

24. One way a business can organize and improve its workflow is by encouraging its employees to 
A. separate duties.
B. avoid taking breaks.
C. take their work home.
D. prioritize multitasking.

24. A
Separate duties. One way a business can organize and improve its workflow is by encouraging its employees to separate duties. If a manager makes sure each individual has their own assigned tasks, it eliminates confusion as to who is working on what and prevents multiple employees from working on the same task. Prioritizing multitasking, avoiding breaks, and taking work home are not ways to organize and improve workflow. Employees should avoid multitasking, as working on several tasks at once can force the brain to go into overload from the constant back and forth between projects, which slows down progress and productivity. Taking breaks is important, as it refreshes the mind and will allow employees to have more focus when returning to their tasks. Employees should avoid taking their work home. If an employee knows they will have more time to work on something later, they may not be as productive during the workday. In addition, working from home after working in the office could cause restlessness and can increase exhaustion. 
SOURCE: EN:027 Explain methods/processes for organizing workflow
SOURCE: Post, J. (2023, February 21). 13 ways to improve your office workflow. Retrieved October 2, 2023,
from https://www.business.com/articles/5-ways-to-improve-your-office-workflow/ 

37. Which of the following is a reason for conducting feasibility studies for venture ideas: 
A. To guarantee the success of the venture idea
B. To investigate competitors' financial conditions
C. To identify new business opportunities through the investigation process
D. To select the form of business ownership

37. C
To identify new business opportunities through the investigation process. By conducting feasibility studies, prospective business owners investigate whether business ideas are viable. The studies help to narrow the scope of the business ideas being considered. It's unlikely that one of the ideas will surface as "the" business idea to pursue. Conducting a feasibility study will not guarantee the success of a business venture; however, it will help to address many of the issues that a business will confront in the long term. Conducting a feasibility study is not likely to help you select the form of business ownership for your venture. Unless competitors are publicly-traded companies, you will not have access to their financial information. What you do learn about the competition is whether there are a few or many competitors, the barriers/ease of entry into the market or industry, the concentration and competitiveness of vendors and buyers, and price competitiveness. 
SOURCE: EN:038 Determine feasibility of venture ideas
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2023, March 17). Feasibility study. Retrieved October 2, 2023, from
https://www.investopedia.com/terms/f/feasibility-study.asp 

40. Mara is facilitating a group brainstorming session to generate new product ideas for the company. Which of the following attitudes is important for Mara to demonstrate? 
A. Judgmental
B. Authoritarian
C. Neutral
D. Passive

40. C
Neutral. The goal of a group brainstorming session is to generate as many ideas as possible within a set amount of time. The facilitator's role is to guide the discussion and record the group's ideas. It is important for the facilitator to remain neutral or objective when group members share their ideas. By remaining objective and not judging or criticizing ideas, the facilitator helps the group feel comfortable and more willing to provide input. Part of the facilitator's role is to keep the group on track, so the facilitator should exhibit assertive behavior rather than a passive attitude. Exhibiting an authoritarian or rigid attitude may prevent group members from sharing their ideas. 
SOURCE: EN:006 Generate venture ideas
SOURCE: Indeed. (2022, June 24). 10 steps for brainstorming facilitation. Retrieved October 2, 2023, from
https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/brainstorm-facilitation 

63. What is a possible downside of obtaining investment from venture capitalists? 
A. The slow rate of growth
B. The increased chance of failure
C. Repaying the money
D. Sharing company ownership

63. D
Sharing company ownership. When a startup receives funding from a venture capitalist, investors own equity shares in the company. This means there are fewer shares to sell, and the investors might also have a share in decision-making. Startups do not have to repay the money from venture capitalists. Venture capital can help a startup grow quickly, rather than slowly. Obtaining investment from venture capitalists does not increase the chance of failure. 
SOURCE: EN:019 Describe considerations in selecting capital resources
SOURCE: The Hartford. (n.d.). Advantages vs. disadvantages of venture capital. Retrieved October 2, 2023,
from https://www.thehartford.com/business-insurance/strategy/business-financing/venture-capital 

65. What type of planning involves setting short-term goals for a new business venture? 
A. Systematic
B. Environmental
C. Strategic
D. Tactical

65. D
Tactical. Entrepreneurs and small-business owners must engage in a variety of planning activities to get a business started and to keep it running smoothly. Tactical planning is short-range planning (one year) of specific actions the business will take. Strategic planning is long-range planning (three to five years) for the company as a whole. Systematic planning involves using a set of procedures to plan activities. Environmental planning focuses on establishing goals and activities that affect the natural environment. 
SOURCE: EN:007 Describe entrepreneurial planning considerations
SOURCE: Indeed. (2022, June 24). What is tactical planning? Definition and benefits. Retrieved October 2,
2023, from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/tactical-planning ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 16 

70. Sally wants to incorporate her company and contracts a law firm to handle the legal aspects of the process. This is an example of 
A. outsourcing.
B. staffing.
C. designating.
D. exporting.

70. A
Outsourcing. Outsourcing is acquiring assistance from outside organizations or consultants to obtain goods and services to perform primary business activities. Forming a corporation is complex, so it is important to make sure that the appropriate legal forms are correct. If the business does not complete the legal activities correctly, the government may fine the corporation. A knowledgeable attorney ensures that the business follows the proper procedures and legal forms are accurate. Exporting, staffing, and designating do not describe the process of contracting a law firm to handle a legal issue. 
SOURCE: EN:022 Use external resources to supplement entrepreneur's expertise
SOURCE: Twin, A. (2022, June 18). Outsourcing: How it works in business, with examples. Retrieved October
2, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/o/outsourcing.asp 

71. Matteo has decided to support his friend's new startup by contributing financially while the startup is still in its early stages. This type of financing is often called 
A. impact investing.
B. crowdfunding.
C. seed funding.
D. bridge financing.

71. C
Seed funding. Seed funding is a financing option that involves an investment in the early stages of a startup, often from the startup founders and friends or family. Also often called "friendly money," this type of financing tends to come from those who believe in the founders and their aspirations. Bridge financing comes later in the progress of a startup to help until long-term financing is available. Impact investing is a type of funding for social ventures. Crowdfunding is the process of raising funds from a large group of people, usually via the internet. 
SOURCE: EN:016 Select sources to finance venture creation/start-up
SOURCE: Allen, K.R. (2020). Launching new ventures (8th ed.) [p. 267]. Boston, MA: Cengage Learning, Inc.

81. Carlos is thinking through the requirements he needs for his new business. Looking at his business plan, he sees that he needs to consider administrative startup costs. Which of the following would fall in that category: 
A. Business permits
B. Internet access
C. Marketing materials
D. Employee benefits

81. A
Business permits. To begin conducting business, many startups need to ensure compliance with business regulations and licensing laws as part of their administrative considerations. One of these costs is a business permit, which might require health inspections and authorizations. Other administrative startup costs include property and liability insurance, utilities, and furniture. Internet access is a technology startup cost. Employee benefits is a human resources/employee startup cost. Marketing materials are an advertising and promotion startup cost. 
SOURCE: EN:009 Assess start-up requirements
SOURCE: Morah, C. (2022, November 13). Business startup costs: It's in the details. Retrieved October 2,
2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/articles/pf/09/business-startup-costs.asp 

84. Lilian is starting a new business, and she needs a marketing director. Lilian's friend Tanisha recommends her husband, Diego, who has worked in marketing for over a decade. What was Lilian's recruiting source? 
A. Digital networking
B. Referral
C. Recruiting agency
D. Job board

84. B
Referral. One way that companies can recruit employees is through referrals. Referrals occur when a contact recommends another person for a position. Diego was referred to Lilian through Tanisha, who is a friend of Lilian's, so this is a referral. Referrals are a good way to find employees when a business is just getting off the ground. This is not an example of using a recruiting agency, job board, or digital networking to find an employee. 
SOURCE: EN:017 Explain factors to consider in determining a venture's human-resources needs
SOURCE: Ricketts, C. (2015, April 29). The exact hiring formula that will help you find the right people.
Retrieved October 2, 2023, from https://www.fastcompany.com/3045448/the-exact-hiring-formulathat-will-help-you-find-the-right-people 

87. What financial tool do entrepreneurs use to plan, monitor, and manage their ventures' income and expenses? 
A. Environmental scan
B. Inbound-call report
C. Request for proposal
D. Operating budget

87. D
Operating budget. Budgets are estimates of income and expenses for a specific time period. Budgets are planning tools that help entrepreneurs monitor and manage their ventures' money. Operating budgets estimate the business's day-to-day financial inflows (e.g., sales) and outflows (e.g., payroll and inventory). By setting a budget and comparing it to actual performance, an entrepreneur can evaluate the financial well-being of the venture at regular intervals. Entrepreneurs often consider other sources of information when setting the operating budget, such as requests for proposal, environmental scans, and inbound-call reports. A request for proposal (RFP) is a bid extended to vendors to provide prices for goods and services the business needs. An environmental scan is an analysis of the environment surrounding the business. An inbound-call report is a summary of phone calls processed by sales and service representatives within a specific time period. 
SOURCE: EN:008 Explain tools used by entrepreneurs for venture planning
SOURCE: Bamboo HR. (n.d.). Operating budget. Retrieved October 2, 2023, from
https://www.bamboohr.com/resources/hr-glossary/operating-budget 

97. When the founder of Reece Engineering Firm stepped down, the business lost several key clients and started to see its profits decline. Reece Engineering Firm could have benefitted from 
A. continuation planning.
B. risk-taking.
C. feasibility studies.
D. idea generation.

97. A
Continuation planning. Continuation planning is a plan for the future of a business to ensure that it continues operating successfully when the founder or leader transitions out of their role. If Reece Engineering Firm had a continuation plan in place, it would have been able to prevent the loss of clients and profits that occurred when the founder stepped down. Idea generation, feasibility studies, and risk-taking would not have helped Reece Engineering Firm in this instance. 
SOURCE: EN:034 Explain the need for continuation planning
SOURCE: Cincinnati Life. (n.d.). 6 common mistakes in business continuation planning. Retrieved October 2,
2023, from https://blog.cinfin.com/2017/05/30/life-insurance-business-continuation-planning/ 

Finance 2024 Exams

89. It is important to be honest about the time commitment required when interviewing potential employees for a new business because 
A. entrepreneurs shouldn't hire employees with busy personal lives.
B. being honest should weed out the people who aren't dedicated to the job.
C. employees are not legally allowed to work more than 40 hours per week.
D. employees who are overburdened are unlikely to stay with the company.

89. D
Employees who are overburdened are unlikely to stay with the company. It can be tempting for entrepreneurs to sugarcoat the amount of time and effort that will be needed from employees—but this approach is destined to backfire. Employees who are hired under the impression that they will only work 20 hours per week, for example, will certainly not appreciate it when they are told they actually need to work 30 or 40, especially if their compensation doesn't increase accordingly. If workers are consistently overburdened, they are unlikely to stay with the company for very long—and will probably resent the company's management in the meantime. Entrepreneurs shouldn't discriminate against people with busy personal lives when hiring employees. Many people are able to effectively balance an active personal and professional life. Being honest is important so that employees know what to expect at work. The primary purpose of honesty in the employee search is not to weed out people who are not dedicated to the job—it's to provide transparency for all prospective workers. It is not true that employees are not legally allowed to work more than 40 hours per week. 
SOURCE: EN:044 Describe the use of business ethics in entrepreneurship
SOURCE: LAP-EN-044—Ethical Excellence (Ethics in Entrepreneurship)

Hospitality 2024 Exams

20. Which of the following statements regarding international trade is true: 
A. Only large companies typically benefit from conducting international trade.
B. Foreign language skills are required to conduct international trade.
C. Businesses shipping internationally must use freight forwarding services.
D. Online businesses can easily become involved in international trade.

20. D
Online businesses can easily become involved in international trade. A company that has a website can easily be found by people in foreign countries, and online services make international transactions easy to conduct. Small businesses represent a large majority of international trade. Freight forwarding services are often used by companies, but they are not required. Foreign language skills may be helpful, but they are not required to conduct international trade, since people in many countries speak more than one language and translation services exist. 
SOURCE: EN:041 Describe small-business opportunities in international trade
SOURCE: Ikenson, D. (2022, June 13). The e-commerce revolution is transforming global trade and benefitting
the U.S. economy. Retrieved August 3, 2023, from https://www.forbes.com/sites/danikenson/2022/06/13/the-e-commerce-revolution-is-transformingglobal-trade-and-benefitting-the-us-economy/ 

Marketing 2024 Exams

41. Which of the following is an example of corporate social responsibility: 
A. A business provides three weeks of vacation time to all employees.
B. A retail store refuses to accept returns once 30 days have passed.
C. A company donates a portion of its proceeds to charity each year.
D. A startup business runs a public relations campaign about its mission.

41. C
A company donates a portion of its proceeds to charity each year. Many people believe that businesses have a moral obligation to give back to their communities. This is called corporate social responsibility, and an example is a company donating a portion of its proceeds to charity each year. Providing vacation time to employees is a nice gesture, but it is not necessarily an example of a company giving back to its community. Return policies and public relations campaigns are not examples of corporate social responsibility. 
SOURCE: EN:044 Describe the use of business ethics in entrepreneurship
SOURCE: LAP-EN-044—Ethical Excellence (Ethics in Entrepreneurship)

