2. Which of the following is a disadvantage of investing in bonds: 
A. They are issued by corporations or governments.
B. You must pay a penalty for early withdrawal.
C. They may take a long time to provide a return.
D. Their returns do not keep up with inflation.

2. C
They may take a long time to provide a return. Bonds are considered safe, reliable investments. However, the trade-off is that the investor must be willing to leave their money with the bond issuer for a long time before receiving the return. The rate of this return will not necessarily be lower than the rate of inflation. There is no penalty for early withdrawal from a bond—you just miss out on the return you would have gotten if you had left your money in it. Bonds are issued by corporations or governments, but this is not necessarily a disadvantage. 
SOURCE: FI:077 Explain types of investments
SOURCE: LAP-FI-077—Invest for Success (Types of Investments)

11. Kinan's identity was stolen, and he needs to dispute an inaccuracy in his credit report data. He should reach out to __________ to have the mistake corrected. 
A. the IFRS
B. his financial advisor
C. the credit bureau
D. the police

11. C
The credit bureau. Once a mistake on the credit report has been identified, you should reach out to the reporting credit bureau to fix the mistake. This communication should include your contact information and supporting documentation. While the police and your financial advisor may be sympathetic to your unfortunate situation, they will not be able to help as readily as the reporting credit bureau will. The IFRS stands for International Financial Reporting Standards, a set of international guidelines and procedures governing accounting practices. 
SOURCE: FI:073 Protect against identity theft
SOURCE: Hipp, D. (2023, June 16). How to dispute an error on your credit report. Retrieved August 9, 2023,
from https://www.creditkarma.com/credit-cards/i/dispute-error-creditreport/https://www.creditkarma.com/credit-cards/i/dispute-error-credit-report/ 

18. When Jeremy develops his personal budget, he should categorize the money that he spends on food, clothing, and entertainment as 
A. relational outflows.
B. variable expenses.
C. fixed costs.
D. periodic investments.

18. B
Variable expenses. A budget is an estimation of income and expenses. Developing a personal budget helps individuals better manage their money. Variable expenses are expenses that change from month to month, such as food, clothing, and entertainment expenses. Fixed expenses are expenses that do not change every month, such as rent and loan payments. Relational outflows and periodic investments are not budgetary categories. 
SOURCE: FI:066 Develop personal budget
SOURCE: Pant, P. (2022, July 31). What's the difference between fixed and variable expenses? Retrieved
August 9, 2023, from https://www.thebalance.com/what-s-the-difference-between-fixed-and-variableexpenses-453774 

28. Andrea wants to save up some money to buy a used car for college. Which of the following is a decision she could make to help her reach her goal of buying a used car: 
A. Volunteering at a food shelter
B. Working a summer job
C. Buying lottery tickets
D. Purchasing lunch at school

28. B
Working a summer job. To reach her goal of saving up enough money to buy a used car, Andrea can make the decision to pick up a summer job. By picking up a summer job, she can save money from her paychecks to buy a car. Andrea's chances of winning the lottery are slim to none, so she should save the money instead of spending it on lottery tickets. Rather than purchasing lunch at school, she can pack a lunch. Volunteering at a food shelter is a great way for Andrea to give back to the community, but volunteering means she isn't receiving any payments for her time. 
SOURCE: FI:270 Explain the need to save and invest
SOURCE: Johnston, J. (2023, February 10). How to set and achieve financial goals. Retrieved August 9, 2023,
from https://www.incharge.org/financial-literacy/budgeting-saving/how-to-set-financial-goals/ 

39. Alyssa needs a reliable car to maintain employment. She has saved $1,500 for a down payment on a used car and budgeted $250 for monthly car payments. Unfortunately, the used cars Alyssa can afford are older models at risk of needing repairs. Instead of taking that risk, she decides to lease a reliable new car with a monthly payment of $300 and no money down. She is thinking of using the $1,500 originally planned for a down payment to pay for a vacation. What would be the best way for Alyssa to use the $1,500, though? 
A. Use $1,500 as a down payment on a used car that fits in her budget
B. Give $1,500 to the dealer to cover the first five lease payments
C. Set aside $1,500 to cover the first five lease payments and save for the vacation
D. Put $1,500 in savings to help cover the extra $50 per month for lease payments

39. D
Put $1,500 in savings to help cover the extra $50 per month for lease payments. Saving and using the $1,500 to cover the extra $50 per month will help Alyssa make her first 30 payments on the car and maintain her current budget. Buying a used car may be less expensive and within Alyssa's budget, but it could put her at risk of expensive car repairs and jeopardize her job. Paying for lease payments ahead of schedule usually doesn't offer any financial benefit. Using the $1,500 to cover the first five lease payments and saving for the vacation would give Alyssa a false sense of meeting her budgeted needs when she is really planning to overspend on a vacation. 
SOURCE: FI:783 Make responsible financial decisions
SOURCE: NASFAA. (n.d.). 10 tips for financial literacy month. Retrieved August 9, 2023, from
https://www.nasfaa.org/10_tips_for_financial_literacy_month 

49. Among other factors, lenders generally evaluate __________ to determine a potential borrower's ability to repay debt. 
A. bank addresses
B. credit reports
C. insurance premiums
D. credit unions

49. B
Credit reports. A credit report is a document that contains details of an individual's credit history, which is a historic record of an individual's ability to repay debts. By assessing the credit report, lenders have a better sense of whether the potential borrower has the responsibility and capacity to repay debt. Lenders do not usually evaluate insurance premiums, bank addresses, or credit unions when assessing creditworthiness. 
SOURCE: FI:072 Validate credit history
SOURCE: Twin, A. (2023, June 1). Credit report: Definition, contents, and how to get it for free. Retrieved
August 9, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/c/creditreport.asp 

59. When businesses invest funds to expand, they are involved in the process of 
A. selling.
B. capitalism.
C. finance.
D. depreciation.

59. C
Finance. This is the process of obtaining funds and using them to achieve the goals of the business. If one of the goals of the business is to expand, then investing funds in expansion is part of the finance process. Depreciation is the reduction in value of goods or assets occurring over a period of time. Selling is a marketing function that involves determining client needs and wants and responding through planned, personalized communication that influences purchase decisions and enhances future business opportunities. Capitalism is an economic system that depends on honest, healthy competition among businesses. 
SOURCE: FI:354 Explain the role of finance in business
SOURCE: LAP-FI-354—Money Matters (Role of Finance)

70. A business may use accounting to keep track of 
A. competitor information.
B. customer information.
C. amounts owed to it.
D. marketing campaigns.

70. C
Amounts owed to it. A business may use accounting to keep track of amounts owed to it. Without accurate financial records, businesses would not know if customers were paying their bills and cash was coming into the business. Accounting isn't used to keep track of marketing campaigns, customer information, or competitor information. 
SOURCE: FI:085 Explain the concept of accounting
SOURCE: LAP-FI-085—Show Me the Money (Nature of Accounting)
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 16 

74. When Matthew receives a check four times a year for income he has earned on his stock investments, he is receiving 
A. credit.
B. dividends.
C. cash.
D. deposits.

74. B
Dividends. A dividend is a sum of money that a corporation pays to a stockholder as earnings on an investment. The corporation usually pays dividends by check to stockholders on a quarterly basis. The stockholder can deposit the dividend check into a savings or checking account or convert it to cash. Credit, deposits, and cash are not forms of income that are earned by owning stock. 
SOURCE: FI:061 Describe sources of income and compensation
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2023, May 23). Dividends: Definition in stocks and how payments work. Retrieved August
9, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/d/dividend.asp 

78. Which of the following is an example of processing a transaction with a debit card: 
A. Tyler provided his card number and expiration date to the online travel agency so he could obtain his airline
tickets now and receive his bill for the tickets later. B. After Ava finished her meal at an upscale restaurant, she presented the server with a card that provided Ava
with a special discount off her bill. C. Jayden purchased a new video game from Great Deal Electronics using a store-issued card given to him by
his grandfather. D. When Naomi purchased office supplies, she presented the cashier with a card that automatically withdrew

78. D
When Naomi purchased office supplies, she presented the cashier with a card that automatically withdrew funds from her business's checking account. A debit card is a common method of payment for goods and services. Issued by financial institutions (e.g., banks), a cardholder scans the card into a machine at the point of sale. The information is transmitted to the appropriate location, and the funds are electronically transferred from the cardholder's checking or savings account to the seller's account. Credit is the arrangement in which businesses and individuals can purchase now and pay later. Individuals and businesses can obtain the goods and services that they need right away, such as airline tickets, and then pay for the tickets when they receive their statements from their lending institutions. Some businesses offer membership or customer-loyalty cards, which provide their members or customers with product discounts. Gift cards are store-issued vouchers that a gift giver can purchase for another person to use to buy the store's products. 
SOURCE: FI:058 Explain forms of financial exchange (cash, credit, debit, electronic funds transfer, etc.)
SOURCE: Federal Trade Commission. (n.d.). Using debit cards. Retrieved August 9, 2023, from
https://consumer.gov/managing-your-money/using-debit-cards 

82. What kind of insurance combines death benefits with a savings and investment account? 
A. Ordinary life
B. Term
C. Liability
D. Homeowner's

82. A
Ordinary life. Ordinary life is a type of life insurance that pays benefits on the death of the policyholder. It also provides a savings and investment program at current market rates and has cash value. Term is a form of life insurance that covers a specific number of years. Homeowner's insurance protects property owners from damage to their property. It usually includes liability insurance, which protects the homeowner if someone else is injured on or by their property. 
SOURCE: FI:081 Describe the concept of insurance
SOURCE: LifeInsuranceHub. (2020, May 13). Ordinary life insurance. Retrieved August 9, 2023, from
https://lifeinsurancehub.net/ordinary-life-insurance/ 

83. Which of the following statements best describes revolving credit accounts: 
A. Credit is used for consumed utilities that have not yet been paid.
B. Credit is paid in installments within a certain period of time.
C. The credit limit is set at the time the credit account is opened.
D. Interest is not charged if a credit user makes payments on time.

83. C
The credit limit is set at the time the credit account is opened. A revolving credit account is a type of credit account that limits the total amount of money that may be owed and charges interest on outstanding balances. With a revolving credit account, the credit limit is set at the time the credit account is opened. An installment credit account is a type of credit account set up to handle one total amount of credit that is to be paid off in regular installments within a certain period of time. Service credit is credit used for utilities that have been consumed but not yet paid for. A budget credit account is a form of short-term credit often set up for 60- or 90day periods with a payment due every 30 days, and it does not charge interest if a credit user makes payments on time. 
SOURCE: FI:002 Explain the purposes and importance of credit
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance)

84. Which of the following is a name for a medium of exchange accepted and backed by the government as payment for goods and services: 
A. Currency
B. Money market accounts
C. Credit cards
D. Certificates of deposit

84. A
Currency. Currency is government-issued specimen that are accepted as payment for goods and services. Credit cards, money market accounts, and certificates of deposit are not mediums of exchange. 
SOURCE: FI:059 Identify types of currency (paper money, coins, banknotes, government bonds, treasury
notes, etc.) 
SOURCE: Chen, J. (2023, June 30). Medium of exchange: Definition, how it works, and example. Retrieved
August 9, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/m/mediumofexchange.asp#axzz25hjB0X28 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 19 

87. GAAP is a system that provides accountants with 
A. acceptable procedures.
B. professional development.
C. the newest technology.
D. networking opportunities.

87. A
Acceptable procedures. GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) is a set of standards that provides accountants with acceptable procedures and processes for their jobs. It does not provide technology, networking opportunities, or professional development. 
SOURCE: FI:579 Describe the need for financial information
SOURCE: LAP-FI-579—By the Numbers (The Need for Financial Information)

90. Cecelia wants to purchase a home. How could her bank help her with this goal? 
A. Provide brokerage services
B. Provide a mortgage
C. Offer wealth management
D. Offer mobile check deposit

90. B
Provide a mortgage. Cecelia could reach out to her bank to apply for a mortgage to buy a home. While banks offer wealth management, mobile check deposits, and brokerage services, none of these is specifically related to buying a home. 
SOURCE: FI:075 Describe types of financial-services providers
SOURCE: First Bank. (2023). Four different types of services | Banking. Retrieved August 9, 2023, from
https://localfirstbank.com/article/four-different-types-of-services-banking/ 

91. Which of the following statements related to debt management is true: 
A. If you're struggling to pay your bills, you should contact your creditors to work out a modified payment plan.
B. Debt collectors are permitted to contact you at any time and in any manner, even if you've requested that
they stop contacting you. C. There is no risk of losing assets such as your car or home when you receive a secured loan from a creditor.
D. In many countries, your debts are absolved after you fail to pay your bills for 15 years.

91. A
If you're struggling to pay your bills, you should contact your creditors to work out a modified payment plan. As soon as you begin to struggle financially, it's a good idea to contact your creditors. They may be willing to work out a more realistic payment plan for you. However, if you don't contact your creditors soon enough, it may be too late. Generally, once a debt collector has been asked to collect your payment(s), it is too late to work out a new payment plan with your creditor. Debt collectors are generally prohibited from contacting you at night or at your place of employment (if your employer doesn't approve the calls). Debt collectors are usually required to adhere to requests for no further contact. Secured loans are tied to your personal assets, such as your car or home. When you fail to make your payments on a secured loan, you risk the creditor reclaiming your assets. Debts do not go away if you fail to pay them for 15 years. 
SOURCE: FI:568 Control debt
SOURCE: Federal Trade Commission. (2022, April). How to get out of debt. Retrieved August 9, 2023, from
https://consumer.ftc.gov/articles/how-get-out-debt 

9. Celine is responsible for monitoring her company’s monetary returns and risks. Celine most likely specializes in 
A. finance.
B. procurement.
C. marketing.
D. sales.

9. A
Finance. Finance in business is the function that obtains, monitors, and controls funds so the business can achieve its objectives. Finance involves monitoring monetary returns (e.g., sales revenues, investment profits) and analyzing risks (possibilities of loss) associated with expenses and investments. While marketing, sales, and procurement do require some knowledge of monetary return and risks, these skills are most closely tied with finance. 
SOURCE: FI:354 Explain the role of finance in business
SOURCE: LAP-FI-354—Money Matters (Role of Finance)

11. A business has taken out a mortgage to pay for its newest storefront. This mortgage would appear in the business’s balance sheet under 
A. income.
B. liabilities.
C. assets.
D. capital gains.

11. B
Liabilities. Liabilities are debts that the business owes. A mortgage is a type of loan used to pay for individual or commercial property ownership, which is an example of debt. Assets are anything of value the business owns. Assets would include cash on hand, accounts receivable, and inventory owned by the business. Income is money received by a business or an individual from an outside source. Capital gain refers to the difference between the purchase price and selling price of an investment. 
SOURCE: FI:085 Explain the concept of accounting
SOURCE: LAP-FI-085—Show Me the Money (Nature of Accounting)

18. A convenient feature of online banking is the ability to __________ in real time. 
A. increase your social media presence
B. monitor your account balance
C. adjust your stock portfolio
D. reduce your credit card debt

18. B
Monitor your account balance. Online banking allows customers easy access to their account information, helping them monitor their account balance and adjust their spending habits accordingly. Increasing social media presence and adjusting stock portfolios are not activities directly related to online baking. While online banking can help customers monitor their debt, it does not directly lead to a reduction in credit card debt. 
SOURCE: FI:830 Manage online accounts
SOURCE: Dollar Bank. (2021, August 19). 15 features your online banking & mobile app should have.
Retrieved January 30, 2024, from https://dollar.bank/be-dollar-wise/august-2021/15-features-youronline-banking-mobile-app-should 

21. During a dinner party, Myles shares his client’s personal financial details with a friend. This is an example of __________ behavior. 
A. unethical
B. positive
C. irrational
D. ethical

21. A
Unethical. Sharing personal client information with third parties is irresponsible and unethical behavior in the world of finance. While this behavior is unethical, it is not necessarily irrational. There are possible motives for sharing client information, but those motives are most likely unethical. Unethical behavior is not positive behavior. 
SOURCE: FI:355 Discuss the role of ethics in finance
SOURCE: LAP-FI-355—Money Morals (The Role of Ethics in Finance)
2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 5 

23. Which of the following documents would most help a business make financial decisions: 
A. Balance sheet
B. Personal check
C. Pay stub
D. Company bylaws

23. A
Balance sheet. A balance sheet is a financial statement that captures the financial condition of the business at that particular moment by evaluating assets and liabilities. It is crucial to understanding a business’ overall performance and would be incredibly useful when making financial decisions. Personal checks and pay stubs are pieces of personal financial information that would be useful to an individual, but not a business when making financial decisions. Company bylaws can help a business govern itself, but not make financial decisions. 
SOURCE: FI:579 Describe the need for financial information
SOURCE: LAP-FI-579—By the Numbers (The Need for Financial Information)

36. Which of the following is a benefit of having a budget: 
A. Budgetary information is simplified and less detailed.
B. Financial information is easily accessible.
C. Expenses are reduced and income is increased.
D. Budgets allow businesses to conduct market research.

36. B
Financial information is easily accessible. The benefit of having written records of financial transactions is that information is accurate, accessible, and meaningful. Budgets help create physical, or written, records. Having written budget records does not directly reduce expenses, or increase income. Budgets are not necessarily simple or less detailed. Oftentimes, they are very complex. Budgets do not directly lead to market research. They may appropriate funds for it, but market research is specifically a marketing function. 
SOURCE: FI:106 Describe the nature of budgets
SOURCE: LAP-FI-106—Money Tracks (Nature of Budgets)

43. Hamidou purchases a new smartphone on credit. He signs a contract to pay a specific monthly amount over the next 24 months. This is an example of __________ credit. 
A. regular
B. installment
C. revolving charge
D. budget

43. B
Installment. Installment credit accounts are set up to handle a specific sum of money for a specific purchase. Payments are made by the borrower at regular intervals for a specific time period. Budget credit accounts are usually short term. A revolving charge could only be used to purchase the smartphone if the price didn't exceed the customer's credit limit. With regular credit accounts, the person or business is expected to pay the entire amount due, usually at the end of 30 days. 
SOURCE: FI:002 Explain the purposes and importance of credit
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance)
2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 10 

49. An essential component of business success is 
A. crowdfunding.
B. sufficient cash flow.
C. viral marketing.
D. malpractice insurance.

49. B
Sufficient cash flow. Cash flow is movement of funds into and out of a business. This is an essential component of business success as it determines the amount of cash the business has to work with at any given time. Viral marketing, crowdfunding, and malpractice insurance can be useful tools for businesses in certain scenarios, but they are not key to the success of all businesses. 
SOURCE: FI:091 Describe the nature of cash flow statements
SOURCE: LAP-FI-091—Count the Cash (Cash Flow Statements)

50. Melanie is a freelance accountant. She makes sure to avoid working with any companies with whom she has a personal connection. Melanie is being ethical by 
A. conducting a performance review.
B. partnering with likeminded organizations.
C. avoiding a potential conflict of interest.
D. prioritizing short-term goals.

50. C
Avoiding a potential conflict of interest. A conflict of interest is a situation in which it is impossible to be truly impartial. If Melanie were to conduct business with an organization that she has personal ties to, there is a potential conflict of interest between her duty as an accountant and an incentive to help the company. Melanie is not partnering with any organization or conducting a performance review in this example. Prioritizing short term goals is not always ethical behavior—Melanie is thinking in the long term by avoiding conflicts of interest. 
SOURCE: FI:351 Discuss the role of ethics in accounting
SOURCE: LAP-FI-351—With Due Care (The Role of Ethics in Accounting)

56. Which of the following is one of the primary components of an income statement: 
A. Tax bracket
B. Liabilities
C. Cost of goods sold
D. Assets

56. C
Cost of goods sold. A business's income statement, or profit-and-loss statement, indicates the amount of profit or loss over a period of time, which is usually one year. The basic formula to determine profit or loss is sales minus expenses, which includes the cost of goods sold. Taxes are calculated on the net income determined by the income statement. Assets are anything of value that a business owns. Liabilities are debts that a business owes. 
SOURCE: FI:094 Describe the nature of income statements
SOURCE: LAP-FI-094—Watch Your Bottom Line (Income Statements)

58. Joey is creating a report that includes key financial information, including assets, liabilities, and owner’s equity. Joey is creating a 
A. accounts payable ledger.
B. balance sheet.
C. profit-and-loss statement.
D. tax return.

58. B
Balance sheet. A balance sheet captures the financial condition of the business at that particular moment. This financial report contains the company's assets: that which it owns, such as merchandise inventory; liabilities: that which it owes, such as accounts payable (the monies owed to vendors); and its total equity. The profit-andloss statement is a summary of business transactions that shows net profit before and after taxes. A tax return is a form used to report an individual’s or organization’s tax returns. Accounts payable are the monies that the company owes to its vendors and other creditors and are recorded in the accounts payable ledger. 
SOURCE: FI:093 Explain the nature of balance sheets
SOURCE: LAP-FI-093—The Right Balance (The Nature of Balance Sheets)

62. A legal suit has been brought against Landon for property damage. What type of insurance would best help Landon in this situation? 
A. Personal property
B. Personal liability
C. Loss of use
D. Dwelling

62. B
Personal liability. Personal liability coverage helps protect a homeowner if a legal suit is brought against them for bodily injury or property damage. Dwelling coverage is a type of home insurance that covers the costs to repair or rebuild a homeowner’s house if it is damaged or destroyed. Personal property coverage pays for an individual’s personal items, such as furniture, clothing, or electronics. Loss of use coverage helps homeowners pay for additional expenses they have incurred while their house is being repaired or restored. 
SOURCE: FI:571 Determine insurance needs
SOURCE: Travelers. (2022). Home insurance coverage. Retrieved January 29, 2024, from
https://www.travelers.com/home-insurance/coverage 2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 14 

69. Which of the following investments would be considered least reliable: 
A. Money market accounts
B. Stocks
C. Bonds
D. Savings accounts

69. B
Stocks. Stock value can go up and down often, leading to instability. Stocks can fluctuate dramatically in the short term and can also increase (or decrease) significantly in the long term. Savings accounts, money market accounts, and bonds are stable investments that do not go up and down frequently. 
SOURCE: FI:077 Explain types of investments
SOURCE: LAP-FI-077—Invest for Success (Types of Investments)

1. Which of the following is an example of a personal liability: 
A. Mutual funds
B. Mortgage
C. Treasury bills
D. Vacation home

1. B
Mortgage. Personal liabilities are any debts that an individual owes. A mortgage is a loan used to purchase real estate. A person who takes out a mortgage owes a certain amount to the lender that must be paid back over time. Therefore, a mortgage is a personal liability. A vacation home, mutual funds, and treasury bills are all examples of personal assets, which are anything of value that a person owns that can be converted into cash. 
SOURCE: FI:562 Determine personal net worth
SOURCE: Folger, J. (2023, April 29). How to calculate your tangible net worth. Retrieved October 3, 2023, from
https://www.investopedia.com/articles/pf/13/calculating-your-tangible-net-worth.asp 

3. The time value of money says a dollar you receive in the future will be worth less than a dollar received today due to 
A. interest.
B. exchange rates.
C. disposable income.
D. inflation.

3. D
Inflation. The concept of the time value of money is based on the belief that inflation will always rise—the price of goods will increase over time. The time value of money concept is not based on the belief that interest will always rise, although the concept encourages people to grow their funds through the advantage of interest. The time value of money deals with a specific currency and does not consider exchange rates for other currencies. Disposable income refers to earned income left after taxes owed are paid and has no impact on the future value of a dollar. 
SOURCE: FI:062 Explain the time value of money
SOURCE: Fernando, J. (2023, March 28). Time value of money explained with formula and examples. Retrieved
October 2, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/t/timevalueofmoney.asp 

13. What is a possible consequence of probate? 
A. It keeps property from being appraised.
B. It prevents beneficiaries from paying taxes.
C. It can change the executor of a will.
D. It can be expensive and time-consuming.

13. D
It can be expensive and time-consuming. Going through the probate process involves paperwork, court appearances, and legal fees. Avoiding the probate process can prevent the loss of time and money. Probate does not keep property from being appraised; rather, it includes an appraisal process. Probate does not prevent beneficiaries from paying taxes, nor does it change the executor of a will. In the case that there is no executor, a judge will appoint someone. 
SOURCE: FI:572 Explain the nature of estate planning
SOURCE: Nolo. (2023). What is probate? Retrieved October 3, 2023, from https://www.nolo.com/legalencyclopedia/probate-faq.html

15. When reconciling your check register, it is important to __________ your balance. 
A. subtract all applicable fees from
B. add ATM withdrawals to
C. subtract your earned interest from
D. add your debit card transactions to

15. A
Subtract all applicable fees from. The check register is a central location to record and track all of the checks that you write and the amount of money you spend in your checking account. Each month, you receive a bank statement that details your checking account activity. You should reconcile your check register with your bank statement to ensure that they match. This step is important for many reasons. For example, if you forget to enter transactions in your check register, you may overdraw your account and be fined for insufficient funds. When reconciling your check register, you want to make sure that you have subtracted all fees including debit card transactions and ATM withdrawals. You should add the interest earned if your account is set up to earn interest. 
SOURCE: FI:069 Maintain financial records
SOURCE: Mycreditunion.gov. (2023, June 6). Understanding a check and balancing a checkbook. Retrieved
October 2, 2023, from https://mycreditunion.gov/life-events/checking-credit-cards/checking/balancingcheckbook 

21. How do businesses transfer risk? 
A. Implement security measures
B. Screen employees
C. Obtain insurance
D. Check for hazards

21. C
Obtain insurance. Risk is the possibility of loss. There are many ways to reduce the possibility of loss. One way to reduce the possibility of loss is by transferring the risk, which is done by obtaining insurance. Insurance is a contractual agreement in which one company (insurer) will pay for specified losses incurred by the other company (insured) in return for installment payments (premium). Implementing security measures, checking for hazards, and screening employees are ways to control and prevent certain types of risks. 
SOURCE: FI:081 Describe the concept of insurance
SOURCE: Kagan, J. (2023, September 28). Transfer of risk definition and meaning in insurance. Retrieved October
2, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/t/transferofrisk.asp 

27. Investors who cannot handle much risk often put their money into 
A. business opportunities.
B. collectibles.
C. lending investments.
D. ownership investments.

27. C
Lending investments. Investors who cannot handle much risk often put their money into lending investments. With lending investments, you allow someone to borrow your money for a period of time—for a price. Investors who can handle greater amounts of risk often put their money in ownership investments, which include business opportunities and collectibles. 
SOURCE: FI:077 Explain types of investments
SOURCE: LAP-FI-077—Invest for Success (Types of Investments)

34. Which of the following statements about the importance of emergency funds is true: 
A. Emergency funds increase the need to take out a loan or use credit cards.
B. Emergency funds tend to be cash or highly liquid assets.
C. Emergency funds should be used for vacations or entertainment.
D. Emergency funds should typically be sufficient to pay one month's worth of expenses.

34. B
Emergency funds tend to be cash or highly liquid assets. An emergency fund refers to money stashed away to be used as a financial safety net in a time of financial distress or to meet unexpected expenses. Emergency funds reduce the need to take out a loan or use credit cards, not increase them. Emergency funds should typically be sufficient to pay three to six months' worth of expenses, and some experts suggest even up to a year's worth of expenses. Money in emergency funds should not be used for vacations or entertainment; rather, it should only be used in the case of financial distress or to meet unexpected expenses. This includes car breakdowns, house repairs, the loss of a job, or a serious injury, to name a few. 
SOURCE: FI:270 Explain the need to save and invest
SOURCE: Kurt, D. (2022, February 9). Emergency fund. Retrieved October 3, 2023, from
https://www.investopedia.com/terms/e/emergency_fund.asp 

38. When reconciling a bank statement, you use check marks to do which of the following: 
A. Identify the items you have compared.
B. Void the checks you have ruined.
C. Total the interest you have received.
D. Correct the deposits you have missed.

38. A
Identify the items you have compared. When reconciling a bank statement, you use check marks to identify the items you have compared. Compared items include amounts on the bank statement, check stubs, canceled checks, deposit slips, and the check register. Check marks are not used to correct missed deposits, void ruined checks, or total the interest received. 
SOURCE: FI:070 Balance a bank account
SOURCE: Bragg, S. (2023, July 29). How to reconcile a bank statement. Retrieved October 2, 2023,
from https://www.accountingtools.com/articles/how-to-reconcile-a-bank-statement.html BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 9 

50. During its 20 years of operation, the Normandy Company has made very few changes to its accounting methods and system. As a result, the company's financial information is likely to be very 
A. conservative.
B. comparable.
C. consistent.
D. reliable.

50. C
Consistent. Consistent financial information results from the application of similar or identical accounting methods and systems over time within an organization. The Normandy Company has applied very similar accounting methods over its 20 years of operation. Therefore, the company's financial information is likely to be consistent. However, consistent information is not necessarily comparable, reliable, or conservative. There is no way of knowing if the company's accounting methods are similar to those of other businesses in the industry, so the accounting information may not be comparable. Reliable information is accurate and unbiased. The Normandy Company, though, could easily have inaccurate financial information, even though it is consistent. Conservative financial information does not overstate assets and sales or understate liabilities and expenses. There is no indication that the Normandy Company's information is conservative. 
SOURCE: FI:579 Describe the need for financial information
SOURCE: LAP-FI-579—By the Numbers (The Need for Financial Information)

57. Using the accrual method of accounting, calculate the amount of sales that a business would record for one week if it has $12,650 in cash sales, $15,900 in credit sales, and $14,125 cash-on-hand. 
A. $28,550
B. $26,775
C. $30,025
D. $42,675

57. A
$28,550. The accrual method of accounting records transactions at the time they occur even if no money changes hands at that time. This method is used by many businesses, especially those that extend credit. Since credit purchases are never paid for at the time of purchase, the accrual method keeps the business up to date on the amount of sales rather than on the amount of cash received. If a business has cash sales of $12,650 and credit sales of $15,900 in one week, accounting records would show $28,550 in sales for that week even though the money for the credit sales had not yet been received ($12,650 + $15,900 = $28,550). Monthly sales do not include cash-on-hand. 
SOURCE: FI:085 Explain the concept of accounting
SOURCE: LAP-FI-085—Show Me the Money (Nature of Accounting)

60. The line on a check that reads “Pay to the order of” is where you write 
A. the payment amount in word form.
B. the recipient's name.
C. your signature.
D. the payment amount in numeric form.

60. B
The recipient's name. When you see the phrase "Pay to the order of," ask yourself, "To whom do I make this check out?" and fill in the answer. The payment amount in numeric form, the payment amount in word form, and your signature are all components of a signed check, but they go in different places on the check. 
SOURCE: FI:560 Write checks
SOURCE: Pritchard, J. (2023, March 27). How to write a check: A step-by-step guide. Retrieved October 3, 2023,
from https://www.thebalancemoney.com/how-to-write-a-check-4019395 

69. Decisions about financing refer to the 
A. administration of assets.
B. accounting department.
C. acquisition of funds.
D. accounts receivable.

69. C
Acquisition of funds. Decisions about financing refer to the acquisition of funds. There are many different ways a business can obtain financing, and there are advantages and disadvantages to each method. Financial managers must decide which method or methods will be most beneficial for the company. Accounts receivable refers to the money owed to the business by others. Administration of assets refers to decisions about investments. Acquisition of funds does not necessarily involve the accounting department. 
SOURCE: FI:354 Explain the role of finance in business
SOURCE: LAP-FI-354—Money Matters (Role of Finance)
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 16 

75. The credit applicant was told, "We have approved your credit application because of your excellent credit rating." Which of the following factors helped the applicant win approval: 
A. Capital
B. Conditions
C. Character
D. Capacity

75. C
Character. Character refers to the reputation of the borrower in paying past debts. In this situation, the credit applicant had a known history of prompt repayment, which made the individual a good candidate for additional credit. Capital is the money a business has available. Capacity is the basic ability to earn income and to pay. Conditions are the economic circumstances involved, which aren't mentioned here. 
SOURCE: FI:002 Explain the purposes and importance of credit
SOURCE: Segal, T. (2023, March 17). Five Cs of credit: What they are, how they're used, and which is most
important. Retrieved October 2, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/f/five-c-credit.asp 

89. Valerie is developing a personal budget for the first time. Which of the following is the first step she should take: 
A. Know her income
B. Adjust her debt payments
C. Estimate her fixed expenses
D. Set her financial goals

89. D
Set her financial goals. Valerie should first figure out what amount she would like to have at her disposal in the short term, say next year, and then in the long term, or about five years from now. Then, she should look at her income, expenses, and debt payments to figure out where she can afford to decrease her spending in order to reach her financial goals. 
SOURCE: FI:066 Develop personal budget
SOURCE: Oregon.gov. (n.d.). Creating a personal budget. Retrieved October 2, 2023, from
https://dfr.oregon.gov/financial/manage/pages/budget.aspx 

91. How can a consumer typically determine the best interest rates for personal savings accounts and personal loans? 
A. Evaluate credit union requirements and rates
B. Contact a brokerage firm to get advice
C. Evaluate rates offered by uninsured online banks
D. Evaluate commercial banks' requirements and rates

91. A
Evaluate credit union requirements and rates. Credit unions typically provide the highest interest rates on savings accounts and the lowest interest rates on loans. Commercial banks typically do not offer consumers the beneficial interest rates that credit unions can provide. Uninsured online banks sometimes offer better rates, but they also carry more risk. Brokerage firms buy and sell different types of securities and do not typically provide information about interest rates offered by banking institutions. 
SOURCE: FI:075 Describe types of financial-services providers
SOURCE: Veling, J. (2022, December 1). Credit union loans offer low rates and flexible terms. Retrieved October
2, 2023, from https://www.nerdwallet.com/article/loans/personal-loans/credit-union-loans-personal-oftencheaper 

97. What is the first step Cameron should take to protect himself from identity theft after he loses his wallet? 
A. Cancel all of his credit and debit cards
B. Contact the appropriate government agency to replace the credit cards
C. Advise the proper law enforcement authorities about the loss
D. Change the passwords for his online banking accounts

97. A
Cancel all of his credit and debit cards. Identity theft occurs when somebody uses another individual's name and personal information (e.g., credit cards) for fraudulent purposes. The first thing Cameron should do when he realizes he has lost his wallet is to cancel his credit cards. By canceling the credit cards, Cameron will protect himself in the event that someone finds his wallet and attempts to use the credit cards. Financial institutions and businesses (e.g., retailers) issue credit cards, not government agencies. Cameron should contact the proper law enforcement authorities (e.g., police) if he thinks his wallet is stolen. He can report a lost wallet, and he can also change the passwords for his online banking accounts. However, the first thing he should do is cancel his credit and debit cards. 
SOURCE: FI:073 Protect against identity theft
SOURCE: Stepko, B. (2023, June 20). What to do if your wallet is lost or stolen. Retrieved October 2, 2023, from
https://www.aarp.org/money/scams-fraud/info-2023/lost-or-stolen-wallet-tips.html 

3. Legal ownership of purchases does not pass to the purchaser until all payments have been made if the purchaser uses __________ credit. 
A. regular
B. trade
C. installment
D. revolving

3. C
Installment. Installment credit is often used to make major purchases such as cars and trucks. The title of ownership will carry the purchaser's name, but the seller may hold the title or have a claim against it until all installment payments are complete. Regular and revolving credit purchases pass legal ownership to the buyer at the time of purchase. Trade credit is credit extended by one business to another business. 
SOURCE: FI:002 Explain the purposes and importance of credit
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance)

20. Which of the following are usually responsible for analyzing a business’s income statement: 
A. Cashiers
B. Bookkeepers
C. Customers
D. Managers

20. D
Managers. The income statement is usually analyzed by people who are responsible for the financial status of the business. This includes managers who look at ratios to monitor operations and determine whether a company is running efficiently. They also use the income statement to monitor yearly profit activity. Customers usually do not review a business’s income statements unless they are also stockholders in the business. Bookkeepers usually are responsible for compiling income statement information but not analyzing it. Cashiers accept payments from customers, but they are not responsible for analyzing a business’s income statements. 
SOURCE: FI:094 Describe the nature of income statements
SOURCE: LAP-FI-094—Watch Your Bottom Line (Income Statements)

45. Lakshna is buying a new car. There is a vehicle she likes at Dealership A, but before she makes her purchase, Lakshna visits three other dealerships to look at similar vehicles to make sure she is getting the best deal. This is an example of 
A. currency speculation.
B. merchandising.
C. comparison shopping.
D. impulse spending.

45. C
Comparison shopping. Comparison shopping is the act of visiting other businesses to learn what competing stores are selling and the prices they charge in order to get the best price for the product(s) or service(s) you want or need. Lakshna demonstrated comparison shopping by visiting multiple businesses to compare prices before making a purchase decision. Currency speculation means buying, selling, or holding currencies in an effort to profit from fluctuations in exchange rates. Merchandising is a career involving the selection of products so that the right goods are in the right place at the right time to make a profit. Impulse spending is spending that is the result of an on-the-spot decision and not part of an overall spending plan. 
SOURCE: FI:783 Make responsible financial decisions
SOURCE: My Accounting Course. (2023). What is comparison shopping? Retrieved August 3, 2023, from
https://www.myaccountingcourse.com/accounting-dictionary/comparison-shopping BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 11 

48. Having a “rainy day" fund equivalent to six months of living expenses is an important financial goal because 
A. you can dip into your emergency fund to pay for things like vacations and clothing.
B. emergency funds guarantee that you will be okay even if you never work again.
C. it will protect you during a catastrophe, such as a health emergency or unemployment.
D. you won't need to save for college or retirement if you have an emergency fund.

48. C
It will protect you during a catastrophe, such as a health emergency or unemployment. Emergency or “rainy day” funds are important safety nets in case of economic hardship. Saving up enough money to cover six months of living expenses will allow you to sustain yourself in the event of job loss, health emergency, loss of property, or tragedy. Ideally, you should never dip into your emergency fund until it is truly an emergency. Having an emergency fund won't guarantee that you will be financially healthy forever, but it can help you get back on your feet if you suffer a hardship. You should save for education and retirement costs in addition to your emergency fund. 
SOURCE: FI:065 Set financial goals
SOURCE: Caldwell, M. (2021, October 20). 8 reasons you need an emergency fund. Retrieved August 3, 2023,
from https://www.thebalancemoney.com/reasons-you-need-an-emergency-fund-2385536 

57. Which of the following types of businesses is most likely to have high liability insurance costs: 
A. A clothing boutique
B. A skydiving operation
C. A landscaping service
D. An ice cream parlor

57. B
A skydiving operation. The cost of liability insurance is based on how likely the purchaser is to be sued for harm or injuries. A skydiving operation's liability insurance costs are likely to be high because skydiving is a dangerous activity. An ice cream parlor, clothing boutique, and landscaping service are less likely to be sued than a skydiving service because they are not dangerous operations. 
SOURCE: FI:081 Describe the concept of insurance
SOURCE: MoneyGeek. (2023, April 11). A complete guide to liability insurance: Protecting your home, auto,
business & profession from common peril. Retrieved August 3, 2023, from https://www.moneygeek.com/insurance/liability/ 

91. A business decides to use some surplus cash to pay off a loan early. This is an example of using financial information to 
A. increase sales.
B. manage debt.
C. make purchases.
D. create budgets.

91. B
Manage debt. Paying off a loan early is one way a business can manage its debt. Analyzing financial information helps managers understand the different ways its debt can be managed. Paying off a loan early is not the same as increasing sales, making purchases, or creating budgets. 
SOURCE: FI:579 Describe the need for financial information
SOURCE: LAP-FI-579—By the Numbers (The Need for Financial Information)

96. The money that a company has left over after paying its operating expenses and capital expenditures is classified as 
A. limited cash flow.
B. free cash flow.
C. dividends.
D. stock value.

96. B
Free cash flow. Free cash flow is cash that is left over after a company has paid its general operating expenses and capital expenditures. A high free cash flow indicates a financially healthy business that is able to expand, develop new products and services, and reduce its debt. Dividends are sums of money paid by a company to its shareholders out of its profits. A stock's value is simply a measure of what it is worth at a specific point in time. Limited cash flow would mean a company has very little cash moving in and out of the business. 
SOURCE: FI:541 Interpret cash-flow statements
SOURCE: Investing Answers. (2020, September 29). Free cash flow (FCF). Retrieved August 4, 2023, from
https://investinganswers.com/dictionary/f/free-cash-flow 

20. Which of the following is a benefit of automated accounting technology: 
A. Improved customer engagement
B. More tedious data entry
C. Reduced manual input errors
D. Increased sales commissions

20. C
Reduced manual input errors. With modern accounting technology, accountants no longer have to manually enter, detect, and cross-reference information. Automated programs perform those tasks instantaneously and accurately, reducing the risk of human errors. Accounting technology has no bearing on customer engagement, which is a marketing goal. Data entry is less tedious—not more—with recent advances in accounting technology due to sophisticated programs that can process data automatically. Automated accounting technology does not necessarily mean that sales commissions increase. Commissions are determined based on company sales policies and the products offered. 
SOURCE: FI:352 Explain the use of technology in accounting
SOURCE: Thomson Reuters. (2022, November 8). Accounting technology: What it is and how it works.
Retrieved October 6, 2023, from https://tax.thomsonreuters.com/blog/accounting-technology-what-itis-and-how-it-works 

26. Which of the following is a way in which money flows into a business: 
A. Owner's equity
B. Cost of goods
C. Taxes
D. Sale of assets

26. D
Sale of assets. Ways in which money can flow into a business include start-up money, the sale of products, loans, interest, and the sale of assets. Assets are anything of value that a business owns. In some cases, businesses have assets that they no longer need, and selling these assets brings in cash. Cost of goods, owner's equity, and taxes are all ways in which money flows out of a business. 
SOURCE: FI:091 Describe the nature of cash flow statements
SOURCE: LAP-FI-091—Count the Cash (Cash Flow Statements)
2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 7 

34. Which of the following falls under the focus of working capital management: 
A. Handling accounts payable
B. Paying shareholders
C. Financing investments
D. Demand forecasting

34. A
Handling accounts payable. Working capital management focuses on the company’s current balance of assets and liabilities. This includes accounts payable, which is all the money owed by a business to others. Financing investments, paying shareholders, and demand forecasting fall under capital investment decisions because they are concerned with long-term projects. Demand forecasting is a supply chain management process of predicting and planning for demand; it is not directly tied to working capital management. 
SOURCE: FI:354 Explain the role of finance in business
SOURCE: LAP-FI-354—Money Matters (Role of Finance)

40. Raphael needs insurance that will cover any additional expenses if he is temporarily displaced from his home while it is being repaired or rebuilt. Raphael needs __________ coverage. 
A. personal property
B. loss of use
C. dwelling
D. personal liability

40. B
Loss of use. Loss of use coverage helps homeowners pay for additional expenses they have incurred while their house is being repaired or restored. If Raphael’s home is damaged or destroyed, loss of use coverage will help pay the temporary costs of living while awaiting repairs. Personal property coverage pays for an individual’s personal items, such as furniture, clothing, or electronics. Personal liability coverage helps protect a homeowner if a legal suit is brought against them for bodily injury or property damage. Dwelling coverage is a type of home insurance that covers the actual costs to repair or rebuild a homeowner’s house if it is damaged or destroyed. 
SOURCE: FI:571 Determine insurance needs
SOURCE: Travelers. (2022). Home insurance coverage. Retrieved October 6, 2023, from
https://www.travelers.com/home-insurance/coverage 2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 10 

55. The RTKT company's cash flow statement for the fiscal year has a cash flow from operations of $100 million and capital expenditures of $75 million. What is the company's free cash flow? 
A. $25 million
B. $100 million
C. $175 million
D. $125 million

55. A
$25 million. Free cash flow is the money that remains after a company pays for operating expenses and capital expenditures. The formula for calculating free cash flow is: Free cash flow = Cash flow from operations – Capital expenditures. When inserting the figures from this scenario, the formula is: Free cash flow = $100 million – $75 million. The difference is $25 million, making it the company's free cash flow. 
SOURCE: FI:541 Interpret cash-flow statements
SOURCE: Murphy, C.B. (2023, October 7). What is the formula for calculating free cash flow? Retrieved
October 10, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/033015/what-formulacalculating-free-cash-flow.asp 

5. Customers who use revolving credit accounts are required to pay an additional cost on any balance unpaid at the end of each payment period. Which of the following terms refers to this added cost: 
A. Finance charge
B. Annual fee
C. Installment payment
D. Interest rate

5. A
Finance charge. Finance charges are interest charges on accounts that are not paid in full at the end of each payment period. They are usually a percentage of the total amount due. Annual fees are yearly fees charged for the privilege of using a bank credit card. Interest rates are fees the lender charges the borrower for the use of money. Installment payments are set amounts paid by specific times to repay an installment loan or to pay for an installment credit purchase. 
SOURCE: FI:002 Explain the purposes and importance of credit
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance)
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 2 

6. Kari noticed a couple of withdrawals from her bank account that she did not make. Two days later, she received mail from a medical provider about a treatment she didn't get. Which of the following types of consumer fraud did Kari most likely suffer from: 
A. Credit card fraud
B. Identity theft
C. Debt collection fraud
D. Phishing

6. B
Identity theft. Identity theft is the fraudulent acquisition and use of a person's private identifying information (e.g., name, bank account number), usually for financial gain. Because someone used Kari's bank information in an unauthorized manner to withdraw money from her account and undergo medical treatment in her name, she suffered from identity theft. Credit card fraud occurs when someone steals or finds your credit card and obtains information from it to make purchases or use your card in a fraudulent manner. Phishing is an online identity theft scam that fools its victims into believing they are submitting sensitive, personal information (such as credit card numbers or bank passwords) to a legitimate website. Debt collection fraud is when scammers call or contact consumers demanding payment of fake outstanding debts. 
SOURCE: FI:073 Protect against identity theft
SOURCE: Fontinelle, A. (2023, June 8). The most common types of consumer fraud. Retrieved September 21,
2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/financial-edge/0512/the-most-common-types-of-consumerfraud.aspx#toc-debt-collection-fraud 

8. What might result if a business's merchandising budget called for purchasing more goods than customers wanted? 
A. Additional sales
B. Expanded market
C. Surplus profit
D. Increased costs

8. D
Increased costs. Merchandising budgets determine inventory levels by regulating and planning for the amount of products expected to be sold to customers. When there is more merchandise available than customers want, the business's costs increase for storing, protecting, and insuring the excess merchandise. Accurate merchandising budgets help prevent this situation. Purchasing more goods than customers want to buy will not help a business to increase its sales, expand its market, or generate surplus profit. 
SOURCE: FI:106 Describe the nature of budgets
SOURCE: LAP-FI-106—Money Tracks (Nature of Budgets)

24. Which of the following groups makes regular use of a business's managerial accounting information: 
A. Customers
B. Investors
C. Supervisors
D. Creditors

24. C
Supervisors. Supervisors, executives, and managers are the primary users of a business’s managerial accounting information. This accounting information helps those in a leadership role make wise financial decisions. Creditors study financial accounting information to make decisions about extending credit to the business. Investors are sent financial accounting reports on a regular basis so that they can evaluate their investment. Customers do not typically use a business’s accounting information. 
SOURCE: FI:085 Explain the concept of accounting
SOURCE: LAP-FI-085—Show Me the Money (Nature of Accounting)
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 7 

78. Joseph is the vice president of finance for a large corporation. Recently, he told his sister to dump her stock in the company because it is about to declare bankruptcy. In some countries, Joseph could go to prison for breaking laws pertaining to 
A. insider trading.
B. bribery.
C. embezzlement.
D. money laundering.

78. A
Insider trading. Insider trading involves leaking information to others that is not known to the public. Insider trading laws vary by country, but violators could face imprisonment. In Joseph's situation, he told his sister about the company's bankruptcy before it was made public so she could try to sell her stock before she lost money. Embezzlement involves theft of valuables that have been entrusted to another's care. Money laundering involves legitimizing money that was obtained illegally. A bribe is an illegal payment intended to secure business or products in return. 
SOURCE: FI:356 Explain legal considerations for finance
SOURCE: Fedorov, S. (2017, July 27). The negative effects of insider trading. Retrieved September 25, 2023,
from https://pocketsense.com/negative-effects-insider-trading-8055278.html 

82. Which of the following airlines is most likely to be undervalued, based on their price-to-cash flow ratios: Sky High Current Stock Price: $14.36 Cash Flow per Share: $5.21 Smooth Flying Current Stock Price: $22.78 Cash Flow per Share: $4.12 Soar the Sky Current Stock Price: $18.50 Cash Flow per Share: $3.59 White Clouds Current Stock Price: $25.81 Cash Flow per Share: $6.94 
A. White Clouds
B. Soar the Sky
C. Smooth Flying
D. Sky High

82. D
Sky High. Investors often calculate the price-to-cash flow ratio (P/CF) of potential investments to compare their relative worth. If particular investment's P/CF is lower compared to others in the same industry, the market has probably undervalued that stock. To determine which of the four airline's stock is most likely to be undervalued, calculate the price-to-cash flow ratio of each company. The price-to-cash flow ratio can be found by dividing the current stock price by the cash flow per share (Sky High: $14.36 / $5.21 = 2.76; Smooth Flying: $22.78 / $4.12 = 5.53; Soar the Sky: $18.50 / $3.59 = 5.15; White Clouds: $25.81 / $6.94 = 3.72). Since Sky High's price-tocash flow ratio is lowest, it is most likely to be undervalued. 
SOURCE: FI:541 Interpret cash-flow statements
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2022, March 21). Price-to-cash-flow (P/CF) ratio? Retrieved September 21, 2023,
from http://www.investopedia.com/terms/p/price-to-cash-flowratio.asp 

1. While doing a cost-benefit analysis, Janae found it quite difficult to measure certain items in dollar amounts. Such costs or benefits are most likely to be __________ costs or benefits. 
A. opportunity
B. one-time
C. intangible
D. hidden

1. C
Intangible. A cost or benefit that is difficult to measure in dollar amounts is referred to as an intangible. Intangibles include costs and benefits such as increased or decreased employee morale, increased or decreased customer goodwill, etc. One-time costs are expenses the business pays only once when implementing a decision or project. Opportunity costs refer to what a business will lose if it chooses to spend resources on one decision or project rather than another. A cost-benefit analysis does not include “hidden” costs. 
SOURCE: FI:357 Describe the nature of cost-benefit analysis
SOURCE: LAP-FI-357—Running the Numbers (Cost-Benefit Analysis)

10. Determine the cost of goods sold for a business when the beginning inventory was $250,000, purchases were $600,000, and the ending inventory was $200,000. 
A. $1,050,000
B. $650,000
C. $400,000
D. $150,000

10. B
$650,000. To determine the cost of goods sold, the beginning inventory and purchases are added together to obtain the goods available for sale. The ending inventory is then subtracted from that amount to obtain the cost of goods sold. In this problem, $250,000 (beginning inventory) + $600,000 (purchases) = $850,000 (goods available for sale) - $200,000 (ending inventory) = $650,000 (cost of goods sold). 
SOURCE: FI:102 Interpret financial statements
SOURCE: Stobierski, T. (2020, June 10). The beginner's guide to reading and understanding financial
statements. Retrieved August 11, 2023, from https://online.hbs.edu/blog/post/how-to-read-financialstatements 

19. When a business has been running successfully for several years, what would be a probable next financial step? 
A. Acquiring startup funds
B. Deciding on financial goals
C. Determining product prices
D. Purchasing a second location

19. D
Purchasing a second location. If a business has been running successfully for several years, it may be in the expansion stage of its life cycle. This could mean that the company would consider purchasing a second location. A company would acquire startup funds, decide on financial goals, and determine product prices at a much earlier stage in development. 
SOURCE: FI:339 Describe the financial needs of a business at different stages of its development
SOURCE: Corporate Finance Institute. (2023, April 26). Business life cycle. Retrieved August 11, 2023, from
https://corporatefinanceinstitute.com/resources/knowledge/finance/business-life-cycle/ 

31. Which of the following would a business use to know how much money is available to hire more staff: 
A. Income statements
B. Profit-and-loss statements
C. Journals
D. Accounting information

31. D
Accounting information. Accounting is the process of keeping financial records. The accounting information in these records helps managers make financial decisions that affect the business. The accounting information indicates to managers how much money they can spend for activities, such as hiring more staff. A profit-andloss statement is an income statement that shows how much money the business has made or lost. Journals are special books or computer programs in which a business's transactions are recorded in the order that they occur. 
SOURCE: FI:085 Explain the concept of accounting
SOURCE: LAP-FI-085—Show Me the Money (Nature of Accounting)

41. Which of the following is a benefit of debt financing when starting a business: 
A. You don't have to pay back the money if the business fails.
B. You have control over how the money is spent.
C. You have help from knowledgeable, experienced investors.
D. You don't need to pay interest on the money.

41. B
You have control over how the money is spent. One of the biggest benefits of debt financing is the ability to control how the financing is spent. When you take out a business loan, you are in control of what you do with the money. When you obtain equity financing, however, the investors that are helping you start your business have primary control over business decisions. Some of the downsides of debt financing include interest payments and the need to pay the money back even if the business fails. Help from experienced investors is a benefit of equity financing, not debt financing. 
SOURCE: FI:340 Discuss factors to consider in choosing between debt and equity capital
SOURCE: Maverick, J.B. (2023, May 25). Equity financing vs. debt financing: What's the difference? Retrieved
August 11, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/042215/what-are-benefitscompany-using-equity-financing-vs-debt-financing.asp 

51. On a balance sheet, a business categorizes its inventory and accounts receivable as 
A. long-term assets.
B. owner's equity.
C. current liabilities.
D. current assets.

51. D
Current assets. A balance sheet is a financial statement that captures the financial condition of the business at that particular moment. Inventory and accounts receivable are categorized as current or short-term assets because the levels of inventory and income from sales tend to fluctuate. Owner's equity is the amount an owner has invested in the business plus or minus profits and losses. Long-term assets are items of value that businesses use to generate revenue for more than a year (e.g., buildings, vehicles, and capital equipment). Current liabilities are debts that must be paid within a year. 
SOURCE: FI:093 Explain the nature of balance sheets
SOURCE: Fernando, J. (2023, May 4). Balance sheet. Retrieved August 11, 2023, from
https://www.investopedia.com/terms/b/balancesheet.asp ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 13 

52. Businesses evaluate their relationships with banks to make sure the bank 
A. likes the business.
B. understands the business.
C. operates worldwide.
D. will lower their interest rates.

52. B
Understands the business. A banker is one of the people who has the ability to influence the success of a business. If the business feels that a banker doesn't understand the business, the business should find another banker. Understanding the business is more important than liking the business. Many factors affect the interest rates, and banks may not be able to offer lower rates to all its customers. Many banks are local and work only with businesses in the area. 
SOURCE: FI:039 Analyze critical banking relationships
SOURCE: Michel, M. (2022, April 19). Six steps to building a positive banking relationship. Retrieved August
11, 2023, from https://www.contractormag.com/management/marketing/article/21239529/six-stepsto-building-a-positive-banking-relationship 

89. Calculate a business's total cash available if it has a beginning cash balance of $2,300; total cash receipts of $4,900; and credit sales of $3,500. 
A. $5,800
B. $7,200
C. $10,700
D. $3,700

89. B
$7,200. A business determines the amount of cash it will have available to spend each month by adding its total cash receipts to its beginning cash balance ($2,300 + $4,900 = $7,200). The business does not record credit sales until the cash has been received. 
SOURCE: FI:092 Prepare cash flow statements
SOURCE: Milano, S. (n.d.). Formula for calculating total cash flow. Retrieved August 11, 2023,
from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/formula-calculating-total-cash-flow-81055.html 

95. Which of the following is one of the main components of an income statement: 
A. Assets
B. Taxes
C. Liabilities
D. Revenue

95. D
Revenue. Revenue is the money received by resource owners and by producers for supplying goods and services to consumers. Revenue is an important component of an income statement because it indicates the total amount of money a business earns from all sources such as sales, interest, and dividends. A business's revenue should exceed its expenses in order for the business to make a profit. Taxes are calculated on the net income determined by the income statement. Assets are anything of value that a business owns. Liabilities are debts that a business owes. 
SOURCE: FI:094 Describe the nature of income statements
SOURCE: LAP-FI-094—Watch Your Bottom Line (Income Statements)

1. Which of the following best describes a secured business line of credit: 
A. It is difficult to get approved.
B. It is riskier for the lender.
C. It requires collateral.
D. It comes with a higher interest rate.

1. C
It requires collateral. Secured business lines of credit require collateral, or anything of value belonging to the borrower which is pledged to the lender to guarantee that the loan will be repaid. When securing a line of credit, the lender places a lien on the collateral, meaning the lender has the legal right to take the borrower's asset if they stop making payments. Secured business lines of credit are easier to get approved than unsecured loans. Unsecured lines of credit don't require collateral, which makes it riskier for the lender. Because of this, unsecured loans often come with higher interest rates. 
SOURCE: FI:023 Explain the purposes and importance of obtaining business credit
SOURCE: Goff, K. (2023, December 5). Types of business lines of credit. Retrieved January 19, 2024, from
https://www.bankrate.com/loans/small-business/business-line-of-credit-types 

26. Jonathan received capital for his small business after providing collateral and promising to pay the money back. What type of small business capital did Jonathan most likely receive? 
A. Money from an angel investor
B. Commercial loan
C. Personal seed money
D. Funding from a venture capitalist

26. B
Commercial loan. A commercial loan is a debt-based funding agreement between a financial institution (such as a bank) and a business. Commercial loans often require collateral from the borrower, or anything of value belonging to the borrower which is pledged to the lender to guarantee that the loan will be repaid. Because Jonathan provided collateral and promised to pay back the money, he most likely received a commercial loan. Personal seed money is money from the business owner or owners. Angel investors and venture capitalists both provide startup money to a new business in exchange for ownership equity in the company. There is no indication that Jonathan used some of his own money or received money from an angel investor or venture capitalist. 
SOURCE: FI:043 Determine financing needed for business operations
SOURCE: Ejim, E. (2024, January 1). What are the different types of small business capital? Retrieved January
18, 2024, from https://www.wise-geek.com/what-are-the-different-types-of-small-businesscapital.htm 

28. Elyssa’s manager asks her to create a master budget. What type of budget is her manager most likely asking for? 
A. Flexible budget
B. Dynamic budget
C. Variable budget
D. Fixed budget

28. D
Fixed budget. A fixed budget may also be referred to as a static budget or a master budget. The most notable feature of a fixed budget is that it does not change. In other words, managers use it as a guideline, but they don’t adjust it as the budget period goes along. It can be used to measure profit or performance when it’s compared to what’s actually happening financially. A flexible budget also goes by the name variable budget or dynamic budget. This budget can be adjusted with changes in activity and used to compare to the fixed budget to see how the company is doing. 
SOURCE: FI:099 Develop company's/department's budget
SOURCE: LAP-FI-099—Build Your Game Plan (Developing a Company/Department Budget)
2024 HS ICDC ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 8 

33. The XYZ Company is creating a business model. What stage of the business life cycle is the company in? 
A. Startup
B. Maturity
C. Growth
D. Decline

33. A
Startup. Businesses go through life cycles, which includes everything from their creation to their decline. The startup stage is characterized by research and development, including determining the type of business, how the company will be run, what products or services it intends to sell, etc. Developing a business model is key during the startup stage. The growth stage is where companies distinguish themselves from their competition, as owners look to grow and expand. The maturity stage is when the company is established in the market with a strong management team, and sees consistent annual growth. The decline stage is when the company sees consistent drops in revenue. 
SOURCE: FI:339 Describe the financial needs of a business at different stages of its development
SOURCE: Hargrave, M. (2022, December 27). Life cycle: Definition in business, types, and examples.
Retrieved January 8, 2024, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/l/lifecycle.asp 

36. A bank turned down Brian's loan application, as he did not demonstrate his ability to repay the loan. This describes which of the five Cs of credit? 
A. Collateral
B. Conditions
C. Capacity
D. Character

36. C
Capacity. The five Cs of credit (character, capacity, capital, collateral, conditions) are used to determine the creditworthiness of potential borrowers. Capacity refers to the applicant's ability to repay a loan, which is determined by comparing their income against recurring debts and assessing their debt-to-income ratio. Because Brian was not able to demonstrate his ability to repay the loan, this situation describes capacity. Conditions can include the purpose of the loan, the applicant's job stability, the amount of money involved, interest rates, etc. Collateral is anything of value belonging to the borrower which is pledged to the lender to guarantee that the loan will be repaid. Character refers to the applicant's credit history. 
SOURCE: FI:034 Explain loan evaluation criteria used by lending institutions
SOURCE: Segal, T. (2023, December 15). 5 Cs of credit: What they are, how they're used, and which is most
important. Retrieved January 19, 2024, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/f/five-c-credit.asp 2024 HS ICDC ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 10 

42. Which of the following is a typical component of a loan application package: 
A. Driver's license
B. Marriage license
C. Job description
D. Medical records

42. A
Driver's license. When creating a loan application package, it is important to gather your personal and financial information. This includes a proof of your identity, which is typically a driver's license or a non-driver ID like a passport or birth certificate. While a loan officer may ask if you are married, they typically do not require you to include a marriage license. Medical records are not a typical component of a loan application package. Although including pay stubs and W-2 forms are an important part of a loan application package, it is not required to include a job description. 
SOURCE: FI:033 Complete loan application package
SOURCE: Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. (n.d.). Create a loan application packet. Retrieved January
19, 2024, from https://www.consumerfinance.gov/owning-a-home/prepare/create-a-loan-applicationpacket 

43. A common mistake while conducting a cost-benefit analysis is 
A. overestimating costs.
B. looking too far into the future.
C. including intangible costs.
D. accounting for as many costs as possible.

43. B
Looking too far into the future. It’s a mistake to create a cost-benefit analysis that runs too far into the future. Think shorter-term. A reliable cost-benefit analysis will predict no more than six to eight years of results at the most. Overestimating costs is likely a good way to understand where finances may fall in a worst-case scenario and can be useful. Putting a price on intangible costs can also help with planning and is useful. Accounting for as many costs as possible is also more helpful in a cost-benefit analysis, as it is supposed to be comprehensive. 
SOURCE: FI:357 Describe the nature of cost-benefit analysis
SOURCE: LAP-FI-357—Running the Numbers (Cost-Benefit Analysis)

49. Which of the following statements about direct writers in the insurance industry is true: 
A. They are self-employed.
B. They work for an insurance company.
C. They sell policies of various insurance companies.
D. They work on behalf of the policy holder.

49. B
They work for an insurance company. A direct writer is an insurance agent that is employed by a specific company to issue its policies. Direct writers work for an insurance company, whereas independent agents are self-employed and make commissions from selling policies of various insurance companies. Independent agents work on behalf of the policyholder, rather than an insurance company. 
SOURCE: FI:082 Obtain insurance coverage
SOURCE: Liberto, D. (2021, July 29). Direct writer: What it is, how it works, benefits. Retrieved January 18,
2024, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/d/direct-writer.asp 2024 HS ICDC ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 13 

70. Which of the following statements about profitability ratios is true: 
A. Lower profitability ratios indicate success at converting revenue to profit.
B. Higher profitability ratios are more favorable than lower ratios.
C. They include margin ratios but don't include return ratios.
D. They assess a company's past performance compared to its projected future performance.

70. B
Higher profitability ratios are more favorable than lower ratios. A profitability ratio is a class of financial ratios that measures the ability of a company to make a profit. They indicate how effectively and efficiently a company generates profit and value for shareholders. Higher profitability ratios are more favorable than lower ratios, as they indicate success at converting revenue to profit. Profitability ratios include both margin ratios and return ratios. Profitability ratios are used to assess a company's current performance compared to its past performance. 
SOURCE: FI:542 Monitor business's profitability
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2024, January 29). Profitability ratios: What they are, common types, and how businesses
use them. Retrieved February 2, 2024, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/p/profitabilityratios.asp 

3. What is an external market factor that might affect the accuracy of sales forecasts? 
A. Operating policies
B. Economic changes
C. Price revisions
D. Previous records

3. B
Economic changes. External market factors that make accurate sales forecasting difficult include economic changes that can't be predicted. In many cases, economic changes happen so quickly that forecasters can't be prepared for them. For example, the stock market can suddenly drop, and sales will fall because consumers reduce their spending until they see whether the market will recover. Previous records, operating policies, and price revisions are internal factors that might affect the accuracy of sales forecasts. 
SOURCE: FI:096 Forecast sales
SOURCE: Salesforce. (n.d.). The complete guide to building a sales forecast. Retrieved October 2, 2023, from
https://www.salesforce.com/resources/articles/building-a-sales-forecast-guide/ 

36. A business has a variable interest rate loan, and the rate increases far more than the business expected. This is one of the __________ of obtaining credit. 
A. fees
B. risks
C. limits
D. penalties

36. B
Risks. Many small businesses obtain variable interest rate loans because the rates are low at the time they negotiate the loan. The risk involved with these types of loans is that the rate will increase far more than the business expects, which makes borrowing the money very expensive. It is risky to obtain variable interest rate loans unless the business negotiates a maximum cap on the rate. That way, the business knows that the interest rate will not exceed a certain number. For example, if the variable rate is currently 5%, a business might negotiate a cap of 9%. A rising interest rate is not a penalty, fee, or limit. However, there are fees associated with obtaining loans, and there may be penalties if the business pays off the loan ahead of schedule. 
SOURCE: FI:041 Identify risks associated with obtaining business credit
SOURCE: Chen, J. (2021, March 31). Variable interest rate: Definition, pros & cons, vs. fixed. Retrieved
October 2, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/v/variableinterestrate.asp 

38. Calculate the amount a business can budget to spend on new equipment if it estimates sales of $850,000, expenses of $415,000, and designates 20% of profit for equipment purchases. 
A. $85,500
B. $87,000
C. $86,750
D. $88,250

38. B
$87,000. When businesses develop budgets, they usually prepare a capital budget which allows a certain amount of money for the purchase of new or replacement equipment. In many cases, the amount they budget is based on a percentage of profit. In this example, to calculate the amount a business can budget for new equipment, first determine the amount of profit by subtracting expenses from sales ($850,000 - $415,000 = $435,000). Then calculate 20% of profit ($435,000 x 20% or .20 = $87,000). 
SOURCE: FI:099 Develop company's/department's budget
SOURCE: Kenton, W. (2023, April 18). Capital budgeting: Definition, methods, and examples. Retrieved
October 2, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/c/capitalbudgeting.asp 

43. Kaitlynn recently opened a new dance studio and has decided to apply to her local bank for a loan to begin a new advertising campaign. Kaitlynn's decision describes which of the following business functions: 
A. Risk management
B. Accounting
C. Promotion
D. Financing

43. D
Financing. Financing is a business function that involves understanding the financial concepts used in making business decisions. Promotion is a marketing function that involves communicating information about goods, services, images, and/or ideas to achieve a desired outcome. Risk management is a business activity that involves the planning, controlling, preventing, and procedures used by management to limit business losses. Accounting is a financial activity that involves keeping and interpreting a business's financial records. 
SOURCE: FI:031 Explain sources of financial assistance
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2023, June 8). Financing: What it means and why it matters. Retrieved October 2, 2023,
from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/f/financing.asp ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 11 

47. Calculating total revenue and marginal revenue is one way for businesses to determine 
A. cause and effect.
B. supply and demand.
C. assets and liabilities.
D. output and profit.

47. D
Output and profit. Outputs are the goods and services produced, and profit is the money the business receives for the sale of those outputs. Businesses determine output and profit by calculating total revenue and marginal revenue. Total revenue is all the revenue from the sale of outputs, and marginal revenue is the revenue received from producing and selling one additional unit of output. These calculations help a business decide if output is generating the desired profit. Calculating total revenue and marginal revenue is not a way to determine supply and demand, cause and effect, or assets and liabilities. 
SOURCE: FI:358 Determine relationships among total revenue, marginal revenue, output, and profit
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2022, June 26). What is the relationship between marginal revenue and total
revenue? Retrieved October 2, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/033115/whatrelationship-between-marginal-revenue-and-total-revenue.asp ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 12 

51. Which of the following is a common type of equity financing: 
A. Business credit cards
B. Lines of credit
C. Angel investors
D. Traditional loans

51. C
Angel investors. Equity financing is the process of selling shares to raise capital. Investors that buy the shares hope to share in the future profits of a business or project. A common type of equity financing are angel investors (wealthy individuals who invest a significant portion in exchange for a large ownership percentage). Other common types of equity financing are venture capitalists and equity crowdfunding. Traditional loans, business credit cards, and lines of credit are common types of debt financing. Debt financing is when a borrower accepts funds from an outside source with the promise of repayment plus interest. 
SOURCE: FI:340 Discuss factors to consider in choosing between debt and equity capital
SOURCE: Kuligowski, K. (2023, August 14). The difference between debt and equity financing. Retrieved
October 3, 2023, from https://www.businessnewsdaily.com/6363-debt-vs-equity-financing.html 

80. When deciding whether to accept credit cards, businesses need to consider the discount rate because the rate is a(n) 
A. receivable.
B. estimate.
C. expense.
D. contract.

80. C
Expense. The discount rate is the total amount that a business pays for accepting a bank's credit card. It includes the charge for each transaction, the cost of processing the transaction, and the cost of sending the transaction information to the processing center. Businesses need to consider the discount rate when deciding whether to accept credit cards because the rate is an expense. This rate varies from bank to bank and often ranges from 2% to 5% of a business's credit sales depending on the business's sales volume and size of sales. Therefore, businesses usually shop around for the best rate in order to reduce the expense of accepting credit cards. The discount rate is not a contract, an estimate, or a receivable. 
SOURCE: FI:040 Make critical decisions regarding acceptance of bank cards
SOURCE: Barone, A. (2023, June 30). Merchant discount rate (MDR): Definition, purpose, average
fees. Retrieved October 5, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/m/merchant-discountrate.asp 

90. What type of car insurance is a legal requirement for car drivers in most states/provinces? 
A. Liability
B. Personal injury protection
C. Full coverage
D. Collision

90. A
Liability. Liability coverage is required by law in most states/provinces because it protects other citizens from damages caused by automobile drivers. Liability coverage pays for damages or injuries to others, but it does not pay anything for the insured person's own losses. State/Provincial laws vary, but many states/provinces do not require collision, full coverage, or personal injury protection. 
SOURCE: FI:082 Obtain insurance coverage
SOURCE: Allstate. (2022, April). Liability insurance: How to stay protected. Retrieved October 2, 2023, from
https://www.allstate.com/resources/car-insurance/liability-car-insurance-cover 

2. When the stock market rises, people are more confident and willing to spend, which leads to 
A. economic growth.
B. recession.
C. deflation.
D. fewer loans.

2. A
Economic growth. People generally view a rising stock market as a signal that the economy is strong. Therefore, they have confidence and are more likely to spend their money. This, in turn, causes the economy to grow. The rising of the stock market does not typically lead to recession, fewer loans, or deflation. 
SOURCE: FI:574 Describe the relationship between economic conditions and financial markets
SOURCE: Basu, C. (2019, March 6). What is a stock and how do stocks affect the economy? Retrieved August
8, 2023, from https://finance.zacks.com/stock-stocks-affect-economy-2233.html 

3. Jordan's business was highly successful last year. This year, he plans to introduce a new product line that he is certain will make his business even more profitable in the future. His financial advisor, Anna, has cautioned against taking such action because experts predict that the economy will enter a recession in the coming months. Even though Anna has warned him that expanding his business now is probably going to result in financial loss versus gain, Jordan has decided to move forward with his plans. What is most likely to be causing Jordan to make a decision that could harm his company? 
A. Overconfidence
B. Self-interest
C. Incrementalism
D. Framing

3. A
Overconfidence. Several things can cause business professionals to make poor, unethical decisions. Overconfidence is one factor that can affect a person's ability to make the right decision. Overconfident executives such as Jordan are often so sure of themselves that they can't see the risks involved in making one decision versus another, even when their colleagues warn them of possible negative consequences of their actions. Incrementalism is the diminishing of ethical values over time. Self-interest involves looking out for your own well-being, rather than making the ethical, right choice for the company and its employees. Framing is a tendency to respond to situations based on how those situations are posed or viewed. 
SOURCE: FI:355 Discuss the role of ethics in finance
SOURCE: LAP-FI-355—Money Morals (The Role of Ethics in Finance)

5. A managerial accountant can help a company market its products by 
A. developing a target market analysis.
B. creating a budget for hiring increases.
C. examining the relevant costs of advertising options.
D. determining whether to make or buy a component.

5. C
Examining the relevant costs of advertising options. Managerial accountants can use techniques such as relevant cost analysis to assist marketers in making decisions regarding advertising options. They can determine which will have the lowest and highest costs. Determining whether to buy or make a component is not necessarily a marketing decision. Developing a target market analysis would generally not be a task for a managerial accountant. Creating a budget for hiring increases is not directly related to marketing products. 
SOURCE: FI:660 Explain the nature of managerial accounting
SOURCE: Freedman, J. (2019, January 28). Why management accounting is important in decision-making.
Retrieved August 8, 2023, from http://smallbusiness.chron.com/management-accounting-importantdecisionmaking-53947.html FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 2 

10. Which of the following is a distinguishing feature of a consolidation in the finance industry: 
A. All former entities no longer exist, and a single, new legal entity is formed.
B. All entities continue operating, connected by a parent-subsidiary relationship.
C. The acquirer does not have to purchase 100% of the target company's equity.
D. One of the entities continues to exist, absorbing 100% of another entity's stock.

10. A
All former entities no longer exist, and a single, new legal entity is formed. A consolidation occurs when two businesses agree to create a new entity so that one business can take over the net assets of another entity; neither of the original entities continues to exist. After an acquisition, all entities continue operating, connected by a parent-subsidiary relationship. A merger occurs when a business absorbs 100% of another entity's stock and the acquirer continues to exist. In a consolidation, the acquirer purchases 100% of the target's equity, not less. 
SOURCE: FI:573 Discuss the nature of convergence/consolidation in the finance industry
SOURCE: Kenton, W. (2020, November 27). Consolidate: What it means in business and finance. Retrieved
August 8, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/c/consolidate.asp FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 3 

13. Cost accounting budgets allow __________ to __________. 
A. stakeholders; anticipate future advertising costs
B. management; anticipate future advertising costs
C. management; consider a business's total cost of production
D. stakeholders; consider a business's total cost of production

13. C
Management; consider a business's total cost of production. Cost accounting is a form of managerial accounting, which provides financial information to leadership that makes business decisions. It does not typically provide information to external parties, such as stakeholders. Cost accounting considers a company's cost of production, which can include labor, materials, overhead, etc. It does not include advertising costs. 
SOURCE: FI:662 Discuss the nature of cost accounting budgets
SOURCE: Tuovila, A. (2023, March 9). Cost accounting: Definition and types with examples. Retrieved August
8, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/c/cost-accounting.asp 

22. Which of the following are examples of deposit-taking financial institutions: 
A. Commercial banks, corporations, and mutual savings banks
B. Credit unions, savings and loan associations, and commercial banks
C. Commercial banks, credit unions, and brokerages
D. Savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks, and insurance firms

22. B
Credit unions, savings and loan associations, and commercial banks. Deposit-taking financial institutions accept funds from customers (depositors) and pay interest on the funds. Credit unions, commercial banks, savings and loan associations (banks), and mutual savings banks are types of deposit-taking financial institutions. A corporation is a form of business ownership that is owned by stockholders who have purchased units or shares of the company. Brokerages are financial intermediaries that sell securities. Insurance firms sell insurance and securities. Corporations, brokerages, and insurance firms are not types of deposit-taking financial institutions. 
SOURCE: FI:336 Describe the role of financial institutions
SOURCE: Horton, M. (2023, March 30). Different types of financial institutions. Retrieved August 8, 2023 from
https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/061615/what-are-major-categories-financial-institutionsand-what-are-their-primary-roles.asp 

29. Cocoa beans and corn are examples of investments that people make in which of the following financial markets: 
A. Soft commodities
B. Selective property
C. Money
D. Insurance

29. A
Soft commodities. A financial market is an organized effort or exchange that facilitates the buying and selling of financial assets. There are many types of financial markets, including the commodities market. Commodities are resources, including agricultural goods and mined goods (e.g., gold, silver) that are often used to make other goods. Agricultural goods such as cocoa beans and corn are types of soft commodities. Money markets facilitate the buying and selling of short-term, low-risk financial products (e.g., treasury bills). Selective property and insurance do not describe types of financial markets. 
SOURCE: FI:337 Explain types of financial markets (e.g., money market, capital market, insurance market,
commodities markets, etc.) 
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2023, July 2). Commodity market: Definition, types, example, and how it works. Retrieved
August 8, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/c/commodity-market.asp 

31. A certificate of deposit is a short-term debt security that is sold through __________ markets. 
A. commodities
B. money
C. modified
D. capital

31. B
Money. A financial market is an organized effort or exchange that facilitates the buying and selling of financial assets. Money markets facilitate the buying and selling of short-term, low-risk financial products, such as treasury bills and certificates of deposit. Capital markets buy and sell long-term securities such as corporate and municipal bonds. Commodities markets are involved with the buying and selling of various resources such as agricultural goods and mined goods, which are often used to make other products. Modified is not a type of financial market. 
SOURCE: FI:337 Explain types of financial markets (e.g., money market, capital market, insurance market,
commodities markets, etc.) 
SOURCE: Fernando, J. (2023, May 3). What is a certificate of deposit (CD) and what can it do for
you? Retrieved August 8, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/c/certificateofdeposit.asp 

32. How can the owner of the Rainy Day Cafe figure out how much money they will make by adding a new salad to the menu? 
A. Eliminate indirect costs
B. Determine labor costs
C. Discover sunk costs
D. Perform marginal analysis

32. D
Perform marginal analysis. Marginal analysis helps businesses understand the additional benefits of an activity as compared to the costs of that activity. Adding a new salad might generate revenue, but it will also cost money. Marginal analysis can determine whether it is financially worthwhile. Sunk costs are not related to marginal analysis. Eliminating indirect costs is not feasible and would not necessarily help the owner in this situation. Labor costs might be one factor related to the owner's decision, but they need more information to determine how much money they will make. 
SOURCE: FI:659 Describe marginal analysis techniques and applications
SOURCE: Ross, S. (2021, July 31). How marginal analysis helps in managerial decisions. Retrieved August 8,
2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/042315/how-marginal-analysis-used-makingmanagerial-decision.asp FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 8 

33. Juan noticed a positive variance of $2,000 in the email marketing section of his budget. Juan concluded that this variance demonstrated efficient use of funds. What is another possible explanation for the positive variance? 
A. Email marketing is not an important activity.
B. The planned email marketing campaigns were not completed.
C. Email marketing was not effective.
D. The budget did not allocate enough resources for email marketing.

33. B
The planned email marketing campaigns were not completed. If money was not spent on email marketing, it is possible that the campaigns planned in the budget were never carried out, which would not demonstrate efficient use of funds. Positive variance does not necessarily relate to the ineffectiveness of email marketing. If there is a positive variance, it would suggest that the budget allocated too much toward email marketing rather than not enough. Finally, the positive variance does not necessarily imply that email marketing is or is not important to an organization. 
SOURCE: FI:661 Discuss the use of variance analysis in managerial accounting
SOURCE: Chen, J. (2020, November 30). Budget variance: Definition, primary causes, and types. Retrieved
August 8, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/b/budget-variance.asp 

35. Reece Fashion is considering whether to continue producing one of its handbags. One manager argues that the material that the company purchased to make the handbags was extremely expensive, so production should be halted. However, another manager points out that the cost of this material should not be considered in the decision because 
A. it is a differential cost.
B. it is coming from a biased source.
C. it is a sunk cost.
D. it was the cheapest option.

35. C
It is a sunk cost. Sunk costs are those that have already been incurred and cannot be recovered by any decision. Because the material was already purchased, the cost cannot be recovered. Therefore, it should not be a factor when deciding whether or not to produce the handbags. There is no indication that the manager is a biased source of information or that the material purchased was the cheapest option. Differential cost is the difference in cost between two alternatives. 
SOURCE: FI:658 Describe types of costs used in managerial accounting (e.g., direct cost, indirect cost, sunk
cost, differential cost, etc.) 
SOURCE: Javed, R. (2023, July 10). Differential, opportunity and sunk costs. Retrieved August 8, 2023, from
https://www.accountingformanagement.org/differential-opportunity-and-sunk-costs/ 

39. Which of the following is a legal consideration that pertains to accounting: 
A. Computer hacking
B. Gift giving
C. Entertaining
D. Tax reporting

39. D
Tax reporting. All businesses are required by law to report and pay a variety of taxes. Tax reporting is a legal consideration that pertains to accounting because income and expenses can be reported in different ways. For example, it is illegal for a business to misrepresent financial information to indicate a loss for the purpose of not paying taxes. It is also illegal for a business to fail to report and pay sales tax and payroll withholding tax for employees. Businesses need to be aware of legal issues to avoid potential problems. Gift giving, entertaining, and computer hacking are usually ethical considerations rather than legal considerations. 
SOURCE: FI:353 Explain legal considerations for accounting
SOURCE: US Legal. (1997-2023). Accounting law and legal definition. Retrieved August 8, 2023, from
https://definitions.uslegal.com/a/accounting/ 

40. What are the two major sections of a statement of changes in stockholders' equity? 
A. Capital stock and retained earnings
B. Net income and retained earnings
C. Capital stock and dividends declared
D. Net income and total stockholder's equity

40. A
Capital stock and retained earnings. The statement of changes in equity, also known as the statement of changes in stockholders' or shareholders' equity, indicates changes in stockholders' equity accounts during a specified time period. The capital stock section of a statement of changes in stockholders' equity shows the current value of stocks issued, while the retained earnings section shows the value of any net income retained for business expansion minus any dividends declared as distributions to stockholders. Net income, dividends declared, and total stockholders' equity appear within the statement of changes in stockholders' equity, but they are not the most significant or major sections in that financial statement. 
SOURCE: FI:630 Explain the nature of statements of changes in equity
SOURCE: Xplaind. (2010-2023). Statement of changes in equity. Retrieved August 8, 2023, from
https://xplaind.com/969555/changes-in-shareholders-equity 

48. Dante received a $500 check from his parents on his birthday. If he invests the check into his savings with an annual rate of 5%, how much will it be worth in a year? 
A. $505
B. $575
C. $525
D. $550

48. C
$525. If Dante invests the check into his savings with an annual rate of 5%, it will be worth $525 in a year. The formula for calculating future value is Future Value = Present Value X (1 + Interest Rate). In this scenario, the present value is $500 and the interest rate is 5% (.05 as a decimal), making the equation 500 X (1 + .05). After adding the numbers in the bracket, multiply that sum by the present value of $500, which equals $525. 
SOURCE: FI:238 Calculate the time value of money
SOURCE: Carlson, R. (2020, September 29). How to calculate the future value of an investment. Retrieved
August 7, 2023, from https://www.thebalancemoney.com/how-to-calculate-the-future-value-of-aninvestment-393391 

53. Which of the following is a cost of credit: 
A. Lower prices
B. Annual fees
C. Credit unions
D. Budget credit

53. B
Annual fees. Some credit card providers require users to pay an annual fee for the privilege of using their cards. These fees vary from card to card, depending on the services supplied by the credit card company. Higher prices are a cost of credit. Budget credit is a type of credit. Credit unions are sources of credit. 
SOURCE: FI:002 Explain the purposes and importance of credit
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance)

54. Which of the following is the accounting equation: 
A. Assets = Liabilities - Owner's Equity
B. Liabilities = Owner's Equity + Assets
C. Owner's Equity = Assets X Liabilities
D. Assets = Liabilities + Owner's Equity

54. D
Assets = Liabilities + Owner's Equity. The accounting equation states that a business's assets are equal to its liabilities plus owner's equity. This means that a business obtains all of its assets through two sources— borrowing and investment. None of the other equations shown are the accounting equation. 
SOURCE: FI:093 Explain the nature of balance sheets
SOURCE: LAP-FI-093—The Right Balance (The Nature of Balance Sheets)

56. What is a possible reason for not allocating costs? 
A. A cost is fixed rather than variable.
B. The budget has already been exceeded.
C. A cost is not controlled by any department.
D. Costs are not high enough to be allocated.

56. C
A cost is not controlled by any department. If no departments in an organization can control a cost, it is acceptable to refrain from allocating it to any specific department. Whether a cost is fixed or variable does not determine whether or not it will be allocated. Refraining from allocating costs will not help if an organization is over budget. The amount of the cost does not necessarily determine whether or not it will be allocated. 
SOURCE: FI:663 Discuss the nature of cost allocation
SOURCE: Accounting Tools. (2023, June 7). Cost allocation definition. Retrieved August 8, 2023, from
https://www.accountingtools.com/articles/what-is-cost-allocation.html 

58. Insurance institutions are different from banks because insurance institutions 
A. are subject to federal and state oversight.
B. ensure their customers against certain risks.
C. act as an intermediary between savers and investors.
D. have a mismatch between their liabilities and assets.

58. B
Ensure their customers against certain risks. An insurance institution is a financial intermediary that ensures its customers against certain risks, such as car accidents, house fires, broken items, etc. Customers pay regular insurance premiums in return for this insurance. Banks are subject to federal and state oversight, while insurance companies are subject only to state-level regulation. The bank acts as a financial intermediary between savers and investors, as banks take deposits, pay interest for their use, and lend out money to borrowers who typically pay for it at a high interest rate. In addition, banks accept short-term deposits and make long-term loans, meaning there is a mismatch between their liabilities and assets. With insurance institutions, liabilities are based on certain events happening. 
SOURCE: FI:336 Describe the role of financial institutions
SOURCE: Thangavelu, P. (2021, June 19). Insurance companies vs. banks: What's the difference? Retrieved
August 8, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/articles/personal-finance/070715/insurancecompanies-vs-banks-separate-and-not-equal.asp 

60. Terry owns stock in the Good Eatz food company. He wants to know how much profit the company has made in the last six months. What type of financial statement should Terry reference? 
A. Balance sheet
B. Income statement
C. Cash flow statement
D. Shareholders' equity

60. B
Income statement. To find out how much profit the business made in the last six months, Terry should reference an income statement. An income statement (also known as a profit-and-loss statement) is a summary of a business's income and expenses over a period of time. A balance sheet captures the financial condition of the business at a particular moment, showing how much money a business has, how much it owes, and how much belongs to owners or stockholders. A cash flow statement states how much money has flowed into and out of a business. Shareholders' equity is not a financial statement; rather, it is the value of all the outstanding stock owned by shareholders and is calculated by subtracting liabilities from assets. 
SOURCE: FI:274 Describe sources of securities information
SOURCE: Chen, J. (2023, March 27). Income statement: How to read and use it. Retrieved August 7, 2023,
from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/i/incomestatement.asp 

61. Each year, the Magnolia Corporation compiles information to send to shareholders and interested parties to inform them of the status of the company. What is this information typically called? 
A. Financial statement
B. SWOT analysis
C. Executive summary
D. Annual report

61. D
Annual report. The annual report, typically prepared by the company's management team, outlines the company's financial situation, plans, and other information. A financial statement is one piece of the annual report. An annual report may also contain an executive summary. An annual report is unlikely to contain a SWOT analysis, which is a marketing tool that investigates a business's strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats in an organized fashion. 
SOURCE: FI:274 Describe sources of securities information
SOURCE: Akers, H. (n.d,). What is a company's annual report? Retrieved August 7, 2023, from
https://smallbusiness.chron.com/companys-annual-report-57004.html 

62. Erica is looking at a stock that has a current price of $50.75, a 52-week high of $53.64, and a 52-week low of $42.45. The dividend of the stock is 2.50, while the net change is at +.10. Based on this information, what is the yield percentage of this stock? 
A. 20.3%
B. 4.9%
C. 5.9%
D. 21.4%

62. B
4.9%. Based on the information provided, the yield percentage, also called the rate of return or dividend yield, of the stock is 4.9%. The yield percentage is determined by dividing the dividend by the actual closing price/current price of the stock. Dividing the dividend of 2.50 by the current stock price of $50.75 comes out to 0.049 (4.9%). 
SOURCE: FI:275 Interpret securities table
SOURCE: Dummies. (2021, July 1). How to read a stock table. Retrieved August 8, 2023, from
https://www.dummies.com/article/business-careers-money/personal-finance/investing/investmentvehicles/stocks/how-to-read-a-stock-table-198363 

63. Financial globalization helps investors reduce their exposure to 
A. regulatory liberalization.
B. business cycle risks.
C. speculative bubbles.
D. capital appreciation.

63. B
Business cycle risks. By investing their funds in many different countries, investors are able to diversify their risk and reduce their exposure to business cycle risks. However, financial globalization seems to increase the risks of “speculative bubbles” and “herd behavior” of investors. Liberalization is the removal of government regulations on the flow of capital and international trade. Many countries around the world have reduced or eliminated limits on foreigners' access to their financial markets. Capital appreciation occurs when stock that a person owns becomes worth more than what the person paid for it. Capital appreciation is a positive aspect of investing, not something to avoid. 
SOURCE: FI:575 Explain the nature and scope of financial globalization
SOURCE: Hall, M. (2023, July 27). Globalization and international investment. Retrieved August 8, 2023, from
https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/022615/what-effect-has-globalization-had-internationalinvestments.asp FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 15 

86. Which of the following is an example of a tax liability: 
A. Value of an exemption
B. Deduction for a charitable contribution
C. Amount due on an inheritance
D. Interest paid on a mortgage

86. C
Amount due on an inheritance. A tax liability is a debt, or the total amount of tax an individual owes. There are many types of taxes, and one of them is an inheritance tax. When individuals receive an inheritance, they usually have to pay tax on at least a portion of the inheritance based on the amount of the inheritance. The inheritance tax is a debt that individuals must pay when they receive an inheritance. Deductions for a charitable contribution, interest paid on a mortgage, and the value of an exemption reduce the tax liability on the amount of income that a person earns. 
SOURCE: FI:067 Explain the nature of tax liabilities
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2022, October 26). Tax liability: Definition, calculation, and example. Retrieved August
8, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/t/taxliability.asp FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 20 

91. Accounting software applications facilitate a business's ability to efficiently track income and expenses, manage inventory, and 
A. plan work projects.
B. process payroll.
C. organize media transcripts.
D. establish insurance policies.

91. B
Process payroll. Accounting software programs allow businesses to efficiently track various financial data and generate financial reports. Businesses use accounting software to track budgets, income, expenses, and bank transactions. Many comprehensive accounting software programs have applications to process payroll and taxes, forecast sales, and manage inventory. Businesses use project-management software to plan and execute projects. Businesses do not use accounting software to establish insurance policies or to organize media transcripts. 
SOURCE: FI:352 Explain the use of technology in accounting
SOURCE: Fairbanks, L. (2023, February 21). Choosing the right small business accounting software. Retrieved
August 8, 2023, from http://www.businessnewsdaily.com/7542-choosing-accounting-software.html 

1. If a stock is trading higher than the previous day's close, what color will it likely be on a stock ticker shown on TV? 
A. White
B. Red
C. Green
D. Blue

1. C
Green. On many stock tickers shown on TV networks, colors are used to indicate how a stock is trading. Green indicates that the stock is trading higher than the previous day's close. If it is red, the stock is trading lower than the previous day's close. If it is white or blue, it means the stock is unchanged from the previous day's close. 
SOURCE: FI:275 Interpret securities table
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2022, February 6). How to read a stock ticker. Retrieved December 11, 2023, from
https://www.investopedia.com/articles/01/070401.asp 

4. When the unemployment rate is high, 
A. families have more disposable income.
B. employee morale doesn't change.
C. the economy's output decreases.
D. people have higher purchasing power.

4. C
The economy's output decreases. When the unemployment rate is high, the economy's output decreases. When people are unemployed, they and their families have less disposable income and lower purchasing power. This means that unemployed workers spend far less than employed workers with steady income, as unemployed workers have less money to spend. As a result, the nation as a whole loses their contribution to the economy in terms of buying goods and services. Unemployment also affects those workers who are still employed, as they may be concerned about losing their jobs, feel guilty for having a job when their former coworkers are out of work, or even feel lucky to have kept their jobs. In this way, unemployment hurts employee morale. 
SOURCE: FI:574 Describe the relationship between economic conditions and financial markets
SOURCE: Picardo, E. (2023, August 21). How the unemployment rate affects everybody. Retrieved December
11, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/articles/economics/10/unemployment-rate-get-real.asp 

5. The cash payments section of a cash flow statement is best described as the 
A. money a business has left at the end of the month.
B. money a business has at the beginning of the month.
C. sources of cash flowing out of a business.
D. sources of money flowing into the business.

5. C
Sources of cash flowing out of a business. A cash flow statement is a business’s best guess, or estimate, as to when, where, and how much money will flow into and out of the business. Running along the left edge of the cash flow statement is a wide column, divided into seven parts: beginning cash balance, cash receipts, total cash receipts, total cash available, cash payments, total cash paid out, and ending cash balance. Next is a series of vertical columns that indicate each month of the tax year. The cash payments section of a cash flow statement refers to the sources of cash flowing out of the business. The cash receipts section refers to the specific sources of money flowing into the business. The money a business has at the beginning of the month is the beginning cash balance section, while the money a business has left at the end of the month is the ending cash balance section. 
SOURCE: FI:091 Describe the nature of cash flow statements
SOURCE: LAP-FI-091—Count the Cash (Cash Flow Statements)
2024 HS ICDC FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 2 

14. Variance analysis helps maintain control over a project's expenses by monitoring __________ costs versus __________ costs. 
A. planned; actual
B. planned; past
C. actual; past
D. fixed; indirect

14. A
Planned; actual. A variance analysis assesses the difference between two figures. It helps businesses maintain control over a project's expenses by monitoring planned (or budgeted) costs versus actual costs. A business may conduct a variance analysis for a project to determine if it needs to adjust goals, objectives, or strategies. Monitoring past, indirect, and fixed costs is not the main purpose of a variance analysis. 
SOURCE: FI:661 Discuss the use of variance analysis in managerial accounting
SOURCE: Cross, V. (2019, March 12). The role of variance analysis in businesses. Retrieved December 18,
2023, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/role-variance-analysis-businesses-22641.html 2024 HS ICDC FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 4 

16. Insurance companies are different than banks in that insurance companies 
A. are part of a centralized clearing and payment system.
B. ensure customers pay regular premiums against certain risks.
C. are subject to federal and state oversight.
D. accept short-term deposits and make long-term loans.

16. B
Ensure customers pay regular premiums against certain risks. Insurance companies ensure their customers against certain risks, such as a car accident or a house fire. Customers pay regular premiums to insurance companies to protect them from these risks. Banks take deposits and pay interest for their use and then lend money to borrowers. Banks accept short-term deposits and make long-term loans. Banks are subject to federal and state oversight, whereas insurance companies are subject to only state-level regulation. Banks are part of a centralized clearing and payment system, while insurance companies are not. 
SOURCE: FI:336 Describe the role of financial institutions
SOURCE: Thangavelu, P. (2021, June 19). Insurance companies vs. banks: What's the difference? Retrieved
December 7, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/articles/personal-finance/070715/insurancecompanies-vs-banks-separate-and-not-equal.asp 

17. Kofi is currently working on a report that provides an overview of his company's fiscal year. What type of report is Kofi most likely to be preparing? 
A. 10-K
B. 8-K
C. 20-G
D. 10-Q

17. A
10-K. A 10-K report, also known as an annual report, gives an overview of a company's fiscal year and includes financial information along with insight into the company's leadership, mission, and culture. A 10-Q report, also called a quarterly report, provides content about a company's fiscal quarter. An 8-K report, also called a current events report, provides current information to investors after an event affects the company. A 20-G report is a fictitious term. 
SOURCE: FI:274 Describe sources of securities information
SOURCE: Kuepper, J. (2021, October 31). The best investment information sources. Retrieved December 12,
2023, from https://www.thebalancemoney.com/top-best-sources-of-investor-information-1979207 

20. In the equity market, investors and traders buy and sell 
A. loans.
B. stocks.
C. bonds.
D. credit.

20. B
Stocks. The equity market, also known as the stock market, is where investors and traders sell shares of stock. The debt market, also known as the bond market, is where investors and traders buy and sell bonds and loans. Loans are a type of credit—the arrangement by which businesses or individuals can purchase now and pay later. 
SOURCE: FI:337 Explain types of financial markets (e.g., money market, capital market, insurance market,
commodities markets, etc.) 
SOURCE: Maverick, J.B. (2021, December 13). Debt market vs. equity market: What's the difference?
Retrieved December 8, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/071415/what-aredifferences-between-debt-and-equity-markets.asp 

22. Financial accounting is different than managerial accounting in that financial accounting 
A. looks at the future.
B. prepares data for external users.
C. determines and measures cost.
D. deals with financial statements.

22. B
Prepares data for external users. Financial accounting is a type of accounting that involves preparing and reporting financial data to external users who are not directly involved in business operations. Managerial accounting is a type of accounting that involves preparing and reporting financial data to internal users, usually managers, who need financial information to control day-to-day operations and to make financial decisions and plans affecting the business. Both financial and managerial accounting determine and measure cost and deal with financial statements. Financial accounting looks at the past while analyzing financial information, whereas managerial accounting looks at the future by examining financial information to make forecasts. 
SOURCE: FI:660 Explain the nature of managerial accounting
SOURCE: Atlantic University. (2023, June 28). Financial accounting vs. managerial accounting: What's the
difference? Retrieved December 11, 2023, from https://bau.edu/blog/financial-accounting-vsmanagerial-accounting 2024 HS ICDC FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 6 

27. Two different financial institutions merge to become one company, combining their assets and liabilities in the process. This is an example of 
A. bancassurance.
B. financing.
C. consolidation.
D. inflation.

27. C
Consolidation. Consolidation refers to combining assets, liabilities, and other financial items (such as financial statements) of two or more entities into one. It also refers to the union of smaller companies into larger companies through acquisitions or mergers. Bancassurance is an arrangement between an insurance company and a bank where the insurer can sell its products to bank customers. Financing is funding a business activity or project through debt, equity, or venture capital. Inflation refers to the rise in prices that may occur when demand exceeds supply or when productivity declines and costs of labor go up. 
SOURCE: FI:573 Discuss the nature of convergence/consolidation in the finance industry
SOURCE: Kenton, W. (2020, November 27). Consolidate: What it means in business and finance. Retrieved
December 8, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/c/consolidate.asp 

29. Greenery House uses extra cash to pay off a commercial lawnmower loan ahead of schedule. This is an example of using financial information to 
A. create budgets.
B. manage debt.
C. increase sales.
D. acquire new businesses.

29. B
Manage debt. Knowing how to keep a business running smoothly is the most important use of financial information. Paying off a loan early is one way a business can manage its debt. Analyzing financial information helps businesses understand the different ways debt can be managed. While businesses can use financial information to accomplish a variety of tasks, Greenery House is not using the information to create budgets, increase sales, or acquire new businesses. 
SOURCE: FI:579 Describe the need for financial information
SOURCE: LAP-FI-579—By the Numbers (The Need for Financial Information)

30. When developing each new budget, Brea’s Bagels requires managers to demonstrate the need for every expense instead of relying on figures from a previous period. Brea’s Bagels uses __________ budgeting. 
A. inflation
B. short-term
C. master
D. zero-based

30. D
Zero-based. Zero-based budgeting requires managers to demonstrate the need for every expense instead of relying on figures from a previous period. In effect, each new budget begins at zero. A master budget is made up of information from specialized budgets that are generated by individual departments. To determine specific dollar amounts for budgets, some companies might use the previous budget with an across-the-board percentage increase based on inflation—however, inflation budgeting is a fictitious term. Businesses use both short- and long-term budgets, but in this example, Brea’s Bagels is not using short-term budgeting. 
SOURCE: FI:106 Describe the nature of budgets
SOURCE: LAP-FI-106—Money Tracks (Nature of Budgets)

34. Waldo wants to purchase a new truck. What type of credit should he use? 
A. Installment
B. Regular
C. Budget
D. Revolving

34. A
Installment. Installment credit is designed to handle one total amount of credit, which is paid in installments within a certain time period. Installment credit is commonly used to purchase large, expensive items such as furniture or cars. Regular credit accounts are used to obtain small-ticket items during a set period of time, usually 30 days. Budget credit accounts advertise credit terms such as “90 days same as cash.” Revolving credit accounts involve setting a credit limit and paying the amount due each month or making minimum, monthly payments on the account. 
SOURCE: FI:002 Explain the purposes and importance of credit
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance)

37. Which of the following best represents the recession phase of a business cycle: 
A. Income and sales fall.
B. Employment falls and income rises.
C. Employment and production rise.
D. Sales fall and production rises.

37. A
Income and sales fall. Business cycles refer to periods of expansion and contraction (or recession) in economic activities. A recession is a state of economic decline in which income, sales, employment, and production each fall. The recovery phase of a business cycle sees sustained economic expansion that typically results in a rise in income, sales, employment, and production. 
SOURCE: FI:574 Describe the relationship between economic conditions and financial markets
SOURCE: Achuthan, L. (2022, June 15). Business cycle: What it is, how to measure it, the 4 phases. Retrieved
December 11, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/b/businesscycle.asp 

39. Bianca's $4,000 investment is held in her savings account with 5% simple interest paid annually for three years. Calculate the future value of Bianca's investment. 
A. $4,410.00
B. $3,792.89
C. $3,455.35
D. $4,630.50

39. D
$4,630.50. Future value (FV) is the value of a current asset at some point in the future due to assumed growth from accumulated interest and potential cash flows. The FV of Bianca's $4,000 investment in this scenario is $4,630.50. The formula for calculating future value is FV = Investment amount x (1 + interest rate) ^ number of years. In this scenario, the investment amount is $4,000, the interest rate is 5% (or .05), and the number of years is 3. When plugging in the information from this scenario, the formula is: FV = $4,000 x (1 + .05) ^ 3 = $4,630.50. 
SOURCE: FI:238 Calculate the time value of money
SOURCE: Chen, J. (2023, March 19). Future value: Definition, formula, how to calculate, example, and uses.
Retrieved December 14, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/f/futurevalue.asp 2024 HS ICDC FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 10 

45. Which of the following statements about incremental analysis is true: 
A. It is not applicable to short-run decisions.
B. It is particularly suited to long-run decisions.
C. It assesses the impact of large changes.
D. It is used to assist decision-making.

45. D
It is used to assist decision-making. Incremental analysis is a technique used to assist decision-making by assessing the impact of small changes. It is also commonly described as a way to assist decisions at the margin. Incremental analysis is applicable to both short- and long-run decisions. However, it is particularly suited to short-run decisions. 
SOURCE: FI:659 Describe marginal analysis techniques and applications
SOURCE: Corey, J. (2023, November 20). What is incremental analysis? Retrieved December 15, 2023, from
https://www.smartcapitalmind.com/what-is-incremental-analysis.htm 

46. Which of the following is an example of a direct cost a business pays: 
A. Office supplies
B. Marketing costs
C. Production equipment
D. Utilities

46. C
Production equipment. Direct costs are expenses that can be directly linked to a specific item, service, project, or expense category. Examples of direct costs include production equipment, labor, and materials. Indirect costs are expenses that cannot be directly linked to a specific product or service. Examples of indirect costs include utilities, office supplies, payroll, marketing and advertising costs, and rent. 
SOURCE: FI:663 Discuss the nature of cost allocation
SOURCE: Juma, A. (2023, March 10). Direct vs. indirect costs: Differences and examples. Retrieved December
15, 2023, from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/direct-vs-indirect-costs 

49. Which of the following statements about retained earnings is true: 
A. They are profits a business decides to keep.
B. They are profits a business distributes among shareholders.
C. They are profits a business has before paying its costs.
D. They are profits not typically used for business reinvestment.

49. A
They are profits a business decides to keep. Retained earnings are any profits that a business decides to keep after paying all its direct and indirect costs, income taxes, and dividends to shareholders. Businesses typically use retained earnings for business reinvestment, rather than distributing them among shareholders in the form of dividends. 
SOURCE: FI:630 Explain the nature of statements of changes in equity
SOURCE: Carlson, R. (2020, July 17). What are retained earnings? Retrieved December 13, 2023, from
https://www.thebalancemoney.com/what-are-retained-earnings-393324 

52. Lianne only invests in domestic stocks and has never invested in international stocks. This is an example of 
A. globalization.
B. liberalization.
C. overvalued stock.
D. home bias.

52. D
Home bias. Home bias refers to an investor's preference to invest primarily in domestic equities instead of diversifying into foreign or international equities. Because Lianne only invests in domestic stocks and has never invested in international stocks, this is an example of home bias. Globalization is the rapid and unimpeded flow of capital, labor, and ideas across national borders. Liberalization is the loosening of restrictions on something, oftentimes an economic or political system. Overvalued stock is a stock that is priced higher than the company's perceived intrinsic value. 
SOURCE: FI:575 Explain the nature and scope of financial globalization
SOURCE: Chen, J. (2022, May 17). Home bias: What it is, how it works, special considerations. Retrieved
December 11, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/h/homebias.asp 

62. Which of the following statements about a statement of owner's equity is true: 
A. It is another name for a cash flow statement.
B. It shows only the beginning owner's equity.
C. It is prepared before an income statement.
D. It shows items affecting owner's equity during a period.

62. D
It shows items affecting owner's equity during a period. A statement of owner's equity shows the beginning and the ending owner's equity balances, as well as items affecting owner's equity during a period of time. A statement of owner's equity is prepared after the income statement—a financial summary that shows how much money the business has made or has lost over a period of time. A statement of owner's equity is not the same as a cash flow statement. A cash flow statement is a financial summary with estimates as to when, where, and how much money will flow into and out of a business. 
SOURCE: FI:630 Explain the nature of statements of changes in equity
SOURCE: CliffsNotes. (2023). Understanding financial statements. Retrieved December 13, 2023, from
https://www.cliffsnotes.com/study-guides/accounting/accounting-principles-i/principles-ofaccounting/understanding-financial-statements 

69. If a business is looking to allocate costs, what is the first step it should take? 
A. Lay off underperforming employees
B. Accumulate costs into a cost pool
C. Identify cost objects
D. Assign costs to cost objects

69. C
Identify cost objects. Cost allocation refers to the process of identifying, accumulating, and assigning costs to cost objects (e.g., brand, project, product line, division/department, branch of a company) based on specific criteria. If a business is looking to allocate costs, the first step it should take is to identify cost objects. Cost objects are important because decisions are made with them in mind. Once cost objects are identified, the business can accumulate costs into a cost pool where they can be categorized. Then, the business can assign costs to cost objects. Laying off underperforming employees is not a step a business should take when looking to allocate costs. 
SOURCE: FI:663 Discuss the nature of cost allocation
SOURCE: Corporate Finance Institute. (2023). Cost allocation. Retrieved December 18, 2023, from
https://corporatefinanceinstitute.com/resources/accounting/cost-allocation 

70. When Taylor bought a ticket to a concert, she decided not to purchase ticket insurance. However, the morning of the concert, Taylor becomes sick and is unable to attend. Because she didn't purchase insurance, she is not able to get her money back. What type of cost does this best describe? 
A. Sunk
B. Opportunity
C. Incremental
D. Differential

70. A
Sunk. Sunk costs are costs that have already been incurred and thus cannot be recovered. Because Taylor's ticket cannot be recovered, this is an example of a sunk cost. Differential cost (also known as incremental cost) is the difference between two cost alternatives. Opportunity cost is the benefit that is lost when you decide to use scarce resources for one purpose rather than for another. 
SOURCE: FI:658 Describe types of costs used in managerial accounting (e.g., direct cost, indirect cost, sunk
cost, differential cost, etc.) 
SOURCE: Javed, R. (2023, July 10). Differential, opportunity and sunk costs. Retrieved December 15, 2023,
from https://www.accountingformanagement.org/differential-opportunity-and-sunk-costs 

74. Miranda is offered a lump sum payment of $2,000 in one year. Miranda is contemplating whether it would be better to ask for the money now or to wait for it with a current discount rate of 5%. Calculate the present value of this payment. 
A. $1,333.33
B. $1,904.76
C. $2,105.26
D. $2,000.00

74. B
$1,904.76. Present value (PV) is the current value of a future sum of money. The PV of the $2,000 payment in this scenario is $1,904.76. The formula for calculating present value is: PV = Future Value / (1 + rate of return) ^ number of periods. In the scenario, the future value is $2,000, the rate of return is 5% (or .05), and the number of periods (or in this case, years) is 1. When plugging in the information from this scenario, the formula is: PV = 2,000 / (1 + .05) ^ 1 = $1,904.76. 
SOURCE: FI:238 Calculate the time value of money
SOURCE: Fernando, J. (2023, October 31). What is present value in finance, and how is it calculated?
Retrieved December 13, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/p/presentvalue.asp 

76. Johnny's checks are automatically deposited into his account at his financial institution, which is owned and operated by its members. Johnny’s financial institution is most likely to be a(n) 
A. investment bank.
B. brokerage firm.
C. commercial bank.
D. credit union.

76. D
Credit union. A credit union is a financial cooperative set up to provide savings and credit services to its members, usually within a business, a labor union, or a certain geographic area. Credit unions are created, owned, and operated by its members. Commercial banks are full-service banks that typically work with businesses and offer a variety of banking services including checking and savings accounts, secured and unsecured loans, installment credit, and bank credit cards. Investment banks specialize in helping corporations and governments issue securities and also aid in complicated financial matters such as mergers and acquisitions. Brokerage firms offer various investing services, such as securities trading, research analysis, and advice. 
SOURCE: FI:336 Describe the role of financial institutions
SOURCE: Horton, M. (2023, September 19). Different types of financial institutions. Retrieved December 7,
2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/061615/what-are-major-categories-financialinstitutions-and-what-are-their-primary-roles.asp 

79. Which of the following is an advantage of the future value of money: 
A. It does not rely on estimates.
B. It makes assumptions that always happen.
C. It does not assume constant rate growth.
D. It allows for planning.

79. D
It allows for planning. Future value (FV) is the value of a current asset at some point in the future due to assumed growth from accumulated interest and potential cash flows. FV has several advantages, including that it allows for planning, makes comparisons easier, and is easy to calculate because it relies on estimates. A disadvantage of future value is that its assumptions may not actually happen. Another disadvantage is that it does assume constant growth rate, which can often be impractical. 
SOURCE: FI:238 Calculate the time value of money
SOURCE: Chen, J. (2023, March 19). Future value: Definition, formula, how to calculate, example, and uses.
Retrieved December 14, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/f/futurevalue.asp 2024 HS ICDC FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 20 

82. Which of the following statements best describes the primary market: 
A. It includes the New York Stock Exchange.
B. It is where investors trade securities.
C. It includes auction and dealer markets.
D. It is where securities are created.

82. D
It is where securities are created. The primary market is where securities are created. The secondary market is essentially the stock market, where investors trade securities among themselves. The secondary market includes the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), as well as Nasdaq and all major exchanges around the world. The secondary market can be broken down into two specialized categories: auction markets and dealer markets. 
SOURCE: FI:337 Explain types of financial markets (e.g., money market, capital market, insurance market,
commodities markets, etc.) 
SOURCE: Beers, B. (2021, August 29). A look at primary and secondary markets. Retrieved December 8,
2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/investing/primary-and-secondary-markets 

83. Which of the following is an example of a period cost for a business: 
A. Direct labor
B. Manufacturing supplies
C. Marketing expenses
D. Raw materials

83. C
Marketing expenses. Period costs refer to all costs not included in product costs, meaning they are not directly tied to the production process. Overhead costs; sales, general, and administrative (SG&A) costs; marketing expenses; and office depreciation are examples of period costs. Direct labor, raw materials, and manufacturing supplies are examples of product costs—the direct costs involved in producing a product. 
SOURCE: FI:658 Describe types of costs used in managerial accounting (e.g., direct cost, indirect cost, sunk
cost, differential cost, etc.) 
SOURCE: Murphy, C.B. (2022, April 7). Period costs vs. product costs: What's the difference? Retrieved
December 18, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/102714/what-are-differencesbetween-period-costs-and-product-costs.asp 

85. Which of the following is the purpose of an income statement: 
A. To inform about the ability of a business to generate profit
B. To show the nature of cash receipts and cash disbursements
C. To estimate the liquidity, funding, and debt position of an entity
D. To inform about the status of the business at a moment in time

85. A
To inform about the ability of a business to generate profit. Three of the main types of financial statements are income statements, balance sheets, and cash flow statements. An income statement is a financial summary that shows how much money the business has made or has lost over a period of time. The purpose of an income statement is to inform about the ability of a business to generate a profit. Balance sheets capture the financial condition of the business at that particular moment. Balance sheets are used to estimate the liquidity, funding, and debt position of an entity. Cash flow statements estimate when, where, and how much money will flow into and out of a business. Therefore, cash flow statements show the nature of cash receipts and cash disbursements. 
SOURCE: FI:274 Describe sources of securities information
SOURCE: Bragg, S. (2023, November 8). The purpose of financial statements. Retrieved December 12, 2023,
from https://www.accountingtools.com/articles/what-is-the-purpose-of-financial-statements.html 

87. Shortly after Dana sets her company's budget, one of the company's suppliers raised its prices. This is an example of how __________ can cause budget variance. 
A. inaccurate budgeting
B. changes in costs
C. employee fraud
D. improved operations

87. B
Changes in costs. Budget variance occurs when the amount spent by a business is greater than the budget. There are several causes of budget variances, including changes in costs, employee fraud, improved operations, inaccurate budgeting, and changes in the market economy, to name a few. In this scenario, the supplier increased its prices shortly after Dana set her company's budget, meaning that the company will spend more than initially planned. This scenario is not an example of how employee fraud, improved operations, or inaccurate budgeting can cause budget variance. 
SOURCE: FI:661 Discuss the use of variance analysis in managerial accounting
SOURCE: Arndt, C. (2023, March 2). How to monitor and understand budget variances. Retrieved December
18, 2023, from https://www.orbacloudcfo.com/how-to-monitor-and-understand-budget-variances 

96. Costs that are tied to a company's level of production are most likely to be categorized as __________ costs. 
A. operating
B. indirect
C. variable
D. fixed

96. C
Variable. Cost accounting is a form of managerial accounting that looks to capture a company's total cost of production by assessing costs such as variable, fixed, and operating costs. Cost accounting helps businesses make fully informed decisions. Variable costs are costs tied directly to a company's level of production. Operating costs are associated with the day-to-day operations of a business. Fixed costs are costs that don't vary depending on the level of production. Indirect costs are costs that cannot directly be linked to a product. 
SOURCE: FI:662 Discuss the nature of cost accounting budgets
SOURCE: Tuovila, A. (2023, December 18). Cost accounting: Definition and types with examples. Retrieved
December 18, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/c/cost-accounting.asp 

1. Which of the following indirect manufacturing costs is a company most likely to include in the cost allocation of its individual products: 
A. Heat and lighting costs
B. Administrative salaries
C. Cost of labor
D. Raw product materials

1. A
Heat and lighting costs. Heat and lighting costs are indirect costs that are usually allocated to the production of individual products to determine a more accurate product cost. The cost of labor and raw product materials are considered direct costs associated with the cost object (the manufactured product). Administrative expenses are not generally assigned to individual products, because they occur regardless of whether anything is produced. 
SOURCE: FI:663 Discuss the nature of cost allocation
SOURCE: Averkamp, H. (2023). How can a manufacturer determine the precise cost of its products? Retrieved
September 29, 2023, from https://www.accountingcoach.com/blog/how-can-a-manufacturerdetermine-the-precise-cost-of-its-products 

8. Heidi puts $562 into a savings account with a simple interest rate of 0.5%. How much income from interest can Heidi expect to earn after five years? 
A. $576.05
B. $14.05
C. $140.50
D. $28.10

8. B
$14.05. To determine how much income from interest Heidi will earn in five years, first multiply the original deposit by the interest rate ($562 X 0.5% [or .005] = $2.81). Then, multiply the interest by the number of years to determine the total interest Heidi will earn after five years ($2.81 X 5 = $14.05). Heidi will earn $14.05 in income from interest after five years. 
SOURCE: FI:238 Calculate the time value of money
SOURCE: Furey, E. (2022, May 15). Simple interest calculator A = P(1 + rt). Retrieved September 28, 2023,
from https://www.calculatorsoup.com/calculators/financial/simple-interest-plus-principalcalculator.php 

9. If Kayla wants to obtain the most current pricing for various stocks, she should 
A. review a business's annual report.
B. pick up a business-oriented newspaper.
C. visit the "About Us" section of a business's website.
D. access a financial website.

9. D
Access a financial website. Pricing on the stock exchange fluctuates constantly, so accessing a financial website such as Bloomberg can give Kayla the most current information. A newspaper is typically printed on a daily basis, so some of the information in the stock table is likely to be outdated by the time Kayla reads it. The "About Us" section of a business's website discusses the purpose of the business. The annual report is an overview of the business's performance for the previous year. Neither the "About Us" section of a business's website nor a business's annual report will contain the most current pricing for different stocks. 
SOURCE: FI:275 Interpret securities table
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2022, February 6). How to read a stock ticker. Retrieved September 29, 2023, from
https://www.investopedia.com/articles/01/070401.asp FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 3 

12. If your personal budget has been created correctly, your income and expense columns should be 
A. about $1,000 each.
B. equal to one another.
C. exactly $500 each.
D. different from one another.

12. B
Equal to one another. The ultimate goal of a personal budget is to have income and expenses that are equal to one another—in other words, to have all of your income accounted for and budgeted toward a specific expense or savings objective. If your income column shows a number that is smaller than the number in the expense column, then you will not have enough money to pay for all your expenses. If your expenses are lower than your income, however, you will have excess money that could be budgeted more wisely. Your income and expenses may vary each month—and each person's budget will be unique. There is no "correct" number for income and expenses. 
SOURCE: FI:066 Develop personal budget
SOURCE: Lake, R. (2022, October 19). Budgets: Everything you need to know. Retrieved September 28, 2023,
from https://www.thebalancemoney.com/how-to-make-a-budget-1289587 

18. For which of the following types of credit would you need to ask a customer to make a down payment: 
A. Revolving credit account
B. Installment loan
C. Open account
D. Option account

18. B
Installment loan. Under this plan, the customer is usually required to make a down payment and a series of continuing payments for a specified period of time. With an open account, a customer is billed each month for all purchases made during the preceding month. The option account gives the customer the choice, or option, of paying the entire amount due without a finance charge or paying a minimum amount due (or more) with a finance charge added. With a revolving credit account, the customer pays a small amount each month, usually with a service charge. 
SOURCE: FI:002 Explain the purposes and importance of credit
SOURCE: Srivastav, A.K. (2023). Types of credit. Retrieved September 28, 2023, from
https://www.wallstreetmojo.com/types-of-credit FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 5 

19. Which of the following is true about the debt market: 
A. Its participants may benefit from dividends.
B. Its investments typically involve less risk.
C. It is known for being unstable by nature.
D. It is commonly called the stock market.

19. B
Its investments typically involve less risk. The debt market is where participants can buy or sell loans. Compared with the equity market, the debt market is known for having lower risk and lower reward. The equity market is known for having higher risk and reward and being unstable as a result of vulnerability to political, social, and economic events. It is also referred to as the stock market. Dividends are payments made by companies to their shareholders, so they are potential benefits of the equity market, not the debt market. 
SOURCE: FI:337 Explain types of financial markets (e.g., money market, capital market, insurance market,
commodities markets, etc.) 
SOURCE: Maverick, J.B. (2021, December 13). Debt market vs. equity market: What's the difference?
Retrieved September 29, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/071415/what-aredifferences-between-debt-and-equity-markets.asp 

20. Nick is considering buying stock in a tech company that everyone is talking about, but first he wants to make sure that the company is in good financial shape. Where is the best place to find information that will help him make his decision? 
A. Real-time stock quotes
B. Financial statements
C. Economic trends reports
D. Industry news reports

20. B
Financial statements. A company's financial statements include a wealth of investing information that can help Nick analyze the financial health of that company. While economic trends reports, real-time stock quotes, and industry news reports are also sources of investment information, they are not the best sources of information related to the financial health of a particular company. 
SOURCE: FI:274 Describe sources of securities information
SOURCE: Maverick, J.B. (2022, May 24). Why do shareholders need financial statements? Retrieved
September 29, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/032615/why-do-shareholdersneed-financial-statements.asp 

21. How can a business determine whether it is more profitable this year than last year? 
A. By determining whether owner's equity is positive or negative
B. By comparing the income statement's net profit figures for those two years
C. By comparing the income statement's operating expenses for those two years
D. By determining whether assets minus liabilities equals owner's equity

21. B
By comparing the income statement's net profit figures for those two years. For income statements to be useful, businesses must be able to compare their income statements over time or across companies. That way, they can determine whether a business's profitability is increasing or decreasing. Comparing operating expenses across the two years does not provide a complete picture to determine profitability. This information lets businesses determine where they might be having trouble with certain expenses. Assets minus liabilities should equal the owner's equity. This information is found on the balance sheet and does not provide profitability information. Hopefully, owner's equity will remain positive. If not, the business has more liabilities than assets. However, a person is not able to determine profitability from this information. 
SOURCE: FI:094 Describe the nature of income statements
SOURCE: LAP-FI-094—Watch Your Bottom Line (Income Statements)

32. How do finance companies commonly raise capital? 
A. Investing deposits from savers
B. Issuing notes, bonds, and other obligations
C. Establishing mutual funds and investment banks
D. Investing funds from premium payments

32. B
Issuing notes, bonds, and other obligations. Finance companies, also known as credit companies, are a type of financial institution. Finance companies raise capital by issuing notes, bonds, and other obligations. They use this capital to provide loans to businesses and consumers. Insurance companies raise capital by investing funds from premiums and offering loans to clients. Deposit-taking institutions accept funds from savers and use those funds to offer loans to borrowers. Investment institutions, not finance companies, establish mutual funds and investment banks. 
SOURCE: FI:336 Describe the role of financial institutions
SOURCE: Boyte-White, C. (2022, February 9). Top 2 ways corporations raise capital. Retrieved September 29,
2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/032515/what-are-different-ways-corporationscan-raise-capital.asp 

33. Supervised by the Federal Reserve Board, The DAB Company provides investment advisory services, insurance underwriting, securities underwriting, and merchant banking services. What does The DAB Company exemplify? 
A. A commodities investor
B. A financial holding company
C. An accounting firm
D. A central bank

33. B
A financial holding company. Because financial holding companies provide a wide variety of financial services and related products, the Federal Reserve Board supervises their activities. The primary services that an accounting firm provides include accounting, tax preparation, auditing, and bookkeeping services. Some financial holding companies may offer accounting services. Commodities investors invest their funds in goods (futures) such as grains, livestock, raw materials, etc. A central bank is often responsible for determining interest rates, controlling the nation's money supply, and regulating the banking industry. The Federal Reserve is an example of a central bank. 
SOURCE: FI:573 Discuss the nature of convergence/consolidation in the finance industry
SOURCE: Hargrave, M. (2023, February 27). Financial holding company: Overview, history, FAQ. Retrieved
September 29, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/f/financial-holding-company-fhc.asp 

34. When making business decisions, which of the following costs is most likely to be evaluated using qualitative information versus numerical data: 
A. Direct costs
B. Sunk costs
C. Opportunity costs
D. Indirect costs

34. C
Opportunity costs. Opportunity costs usually require the analysis of qualitative information such as a supplier's reputation for quality or service that can make an impact on the business versus numerical data. A sunk cost is a cost that has already been incurred and cannot be recovered. Direct costs and indirect costs are typically numerical data such as price of materials, labor, and overhead. 
SOURCE: FI:658 Describe types of costs used in managerial accounting (e.g., direct cost, indirect cost, sunk
cost, differential cost, etc.) 
SOURCE: Fernando, J. (2023, March 17). Opportunity cost formula, calculation, and what it can tell you.
Retrieved September 29, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/o/opportunitycost.asp FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 9 

36. Financial globalization tends to cause an increase in 
A. taxes on international transactions.
B. herd behavior among investors.
C. limits on foreigners' access to domestic markets.
D. investors' exposure to business cycle risks.

36. B
Herd behavior among investors. Although financial globalization tends to increase investors' access to many different financial markets, financial globalization also seems to increase the risks of speculative bubbles and herd behavior among investors. Herd behavior involves individuals who act together as a group without any planned direction. It is usually irrational and driven by emotions. In good times, investors hurry to join others in a buying frenzy. But, in bad financial times, fearful investors join others in a rush to get out of risky markets. By diversifying their funds in many different countries, investors are able to diversify their risk and reduce their exposure to business cycle risks. To enable capital to flow more freely across their national borders, many countries have lowered their taxes on international financial transactions. 
SOURCE: FI:575 Explain the nature and scope of financial globalization
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2022, July 7). Herd instinct: Definition, stock market examples, & how to avoid. Retrieved
September 29, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/h/herdinstinct.asp 

39. Which of the following elements are needed to determine the future value of money that is placed in a savings account for one year: 
A. Principal amount and interest rate
B. Interest rates and annual income
C. Late fees and insurance rates
D. Quarterly wages and principal amount

39. A
Principal amount and interest rate. When a customer keeps their money in a financial institution (e.g., bank), they earn interest on the amount (principal) that they put into their savings account. The interest is paid to the customer's account by the financial institution. Over time, the customer earns money on the principal by accumulating interest, which increases the future value of the savings account. To calculate the future value of the savings account, it is necessary to know the principal amount, the interest rate, and the length of time that the principal is in the account. Quarterly wages, late fees, annual income, and insurance rates are not elements that will help a person calculate the future value of money in a savings account. 
SOURCE: FI:062 Explain the time value of money
SOURCE: Heyford, S.C. (2022, May 23). Understanding the time value of money. Retrieved September 28,
2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/articles/03/082703.asp 

41. Business decision makers can best analyze the financial impact of increased production by evaluating __________ cost. 
A. sunk
B. average
C. marginal
D. fixed

41. C
Marginal. Business decision makers often compare marginal cost against marginal revenue to determine the profitability of increased production. A sunk cost is a cost that cannot be recovered or changed, so it is typically irrelevant to any future business activities. Fixed cost and average cost are irrelevant to increased-production decisions because they are based on costs that occur regardless of production levels. 
SOURCE: FI:659 Describe marginal analysis techniques and applications
SOURCE: Corporate Finance Institute. (2023). Marginal cost formula. Retrieved September 29, 2023,
from https://corporatefinanceinstitute.com/resources/accounting/marginal-cost-formula 

50. Which of the following components of a securities table indicates the last price paid when trading ended for the day: 
A. Volume
B. Net change
C. Yield
D. Close

50. D
Close. “Close,” which is sometimes listed as “Last,” represents the last price paid when trading ended for the day. “Net change” compares the closing price with the previous day's closing price. A negative net change indicates that the price is down when compared to the previous day's last price. A positive net change means that the price is up. “Volume” (sometimes listed as “Sales”) tells you how many shares were traded that day. “Yield” signifies the rate of return on the security, determined by dividing the dividend by the actual closing price. 
SOURCE: FI:275 Interpret securities table
SOURCE: Desjardins Online Brokerage. (n.d.). How to read a stock table/quote. Retrieved September 29,
2023, from https://www.disnat.com/en/learning/trading-basics/stock-basics/how-to-read-a-stocktablequote 

53. When the Consumer Price Index (CPI) increases sharply, stock prices usually 
A. fall.
B. stay the same.
C. fluctuate daily.
D. rise.

53. A
Fall. The Consumer Price Index measures the prices of consumer goods. In the United States, it is published monthly by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. However, most experts conduct a “year-on-year” comparison to better understand increases and decreases in the CPI. An increase in the CPI signals an increase in inflation. A sharp increase in inflation causes interest rates and bond values to rise and stock prices to fall. 
SOURCE: FI:574 Describe the relationship between economic conditions and financial markets
SOURCE: Bureau of Labor Statistics. (2023). Consumer price index. Retrieved September 29, 2023,
from https://www.bls.gov/cpi 

54. Evan is a managerial accountant. His manager is deciding whether to expand the sales team. Evan can best help his manager with this decision by 
A. providing feedback on job candidates after their interviews.
B. examining the profitability of various products.
C. summarizing overall financial performance.
D. determining how much new hires would impact the budget.

54. D
Determining how much new hires would impact the budget. Managerial accountants can assist their managers in making business decisions by providing data that can help them make their decisions. If Evan's manager needs to make a decision regarding hiring, Evan can help by providing information about how the decision would impact the budget. Evan's position as a managerial accountant would not necessarily make him qualified to provide feedback on job candidates after their interviews. Summarizing overall financial performances would not necessarily be helpful in the manager's decision-making process. Examining the profitability of various products would also not necessarily help Evan's manager in his decision-making process. 
SOURCE: FI:660 Explain the nature of managerial accounting
SOURCE: Jan, I. (2020, July 22). Managerial accounting. Retrieved September 29, 2023,
from https://xplaind.com/180841/managerial-accounting 

55. Which of the following is a way in which managerial accountants can help a company's management: 
A. Accumulating data on costs and profits
B. Hiring and training new employees
C. Releasing financial information to the public
D. Setting competitive product or service prices

55. A
Accumulating data on costs and profits. Managerial accountants provide valuable assistance and information to management and conduct many types of financial analyses. Accumulating data on costs and profits is one of many ways they do this, and they explain the findings of their analyses to management so that management can make informed financial decisions. Managerial accountants typically do not hire or train employees. Managerial accountants do not have the power to set competitive product or service prices. Rather, they can provide information to help managers do so. Managerial accountants' work is not typically released to the public, because managerial accountants are strictly internal accountants. 
SOURCE: FI:660 Explain the nature of managerial accounting
SOURCE: Cerulli, P. (n.d.). Certified management accountant (CMA) career guide. Retrieved September 29,
2023, from https://www.allbusinessschools.com/specialties/how-to-become-a-cma 

57. Which financial statement should an investor use to quickly determine a company's “bottom line”? 
A. Cash flow statement
B. Income statement
C. Statement of retained earnings
D. Balance sheet

57. B
Income statement. Some investors believe the income statement is the most important document to review because it shows the company's “bottom line,” a term that refers to net income. The income statement shows a company's profitability over a specific period of time. You read an income statement from top to bottom. The top line shows the revenues. Each line below the first line deducts expenses, until you get to the bottom line that shows the net income. A cash flow statement tracks the money that comes into and flows back out of a company. A balance sheet gives a summary of a company's financial health at a specific point in time. A statement of retained earnings indicates the amount of profit that is being retained in the business, as well as the dividends paid by the company during a specific period of time. 
SOURCE: FI:274 Describe sources of securities information
SOURCE: Chen, J. (2023, March 27). Income statement: How to read and use it. Retrieved September 29,
2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/i/incomestatement.asp 

58. Cost accounting budgets are based on __________, but they 
A. past data; project future results.
B. marketing and sales; focus on operations.
C. guesswork; are fairly accurate.
D. internal company information; support external clients.

58. A
Past data; project future results. Budgets are estimates of income and expenses for a specific period of time. In cost accounting, budgets are projections. They are based on past data, but they look forward into the future. Cost accounting budgets are based on internal and external information, and they do not necessarily support external clients. Cost accounting budgets are based on more than marketing and sales, and they focus on more than operations. Cost accounting budgets should not be based on guesswork. Rather, they should be based on past data and insights into the future. 
SOURCE: FI:662 Discuss the nature of cost accounting budgets
SOURCE: Boyd, K. (2016, March 26). Cost accounting: Budgeting basics. Retrieved September 29, 2023,
from https://www.dummies.com/article/business-careers-money/business/accounting/generalaccounting/cost-accounting-budgeting-basics-166823 

62. One risk of business consolidation is 
A. clashes in corporate culture.
B. elimination of redundancy.
C. growth of market share.
D. diversification of products.

62. A
Clashes in corporate culture. When two businesses merge, it is crucial to think about the differences in company culture. Employees are often the essence of a company. If two diverse companies with different philosophies, processes, and experiences merge without proper consideration of and response to these differences, then the consolidation might fail. Eliminating redundancy, diversifying goods and services, and growing market share are all potential benefits of business consolidation, not risks. 
SOURCE: FI:573 Discuss the nature of convergence/consolidation in the finance industry
SOURCE: Taylor, J. (n.d.) Why do businesses consolidate? Retrieved September 29, 2023,
from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/businesses-consolidate-5114.html 

67. Financial markets promote long-term economic development by 
A. directing the flow of investment to encourage production.
B. reducing liquidity.
C. providing indicators of economic health.
D. limiting information available to market participants.

67. A
Directing the flow of investment to encourage production. Financial markets help promote long-term economic growth by directing the flow of money efficiently into production, which increases economic growth. Financial markets do not reduce liquidity; rather, they increase it. Financial markets provide indicators of economic health, but this does not necessarily relate to long-term economic development. Financial markets also do not limit the information available to market participants; rather, they make information easier to access. 
SOURCE: FI:574 Describe the relationship between economic conditions and financial markets
SOURCE: Gorg, H., Krieger-Boden, C., & Nunnenkamp, P. (2016, August 23). Merits of financial development
for developing countries. Retrieved September 29, 2023, from https://cepr.org/voxeu/columns/meritsfinancial-market-development-developing-countries 

73. What is the primary goal of an investment company? 
A. To issue various types of mortgages to businesses
B. To locate outside sources of money for firms
C. To pool and invest funds based on the needs of investors
D. To collect financial contributions and invest them for employees

73. C
To pool and invest funds based on the needs of investors. The primary purpose of an investment company is to pool funds from people and invest them in the types of securities (mutual funds) that are most likely to generate the desired financial returns. Investment banks locate outside sources of money for firms. Banks and mortgage companies issue mortgages. Pension funds involve pooling employees' contributions and investing the monies for financial gain. 
SOURCE: FI:336 Describe the role of financial institutions
SOURCE: U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. (n.d.). Investment company. Retrieved September 29,
2023, from https://www.investor.gov/introduction-investing/investing-basics/glossary/investmentcompany 

81. An organization trying to determine why actual net sales were below the forecasted sales for a specific time period would probably evaluate any __________ variance. 
A. fixed overhead spending
B. purchase price
C. selling price
D. material yield

81. C
Selling price. The selling price variance, which is the difference between the standard selling price and the actual selling price, can be used to help explain why actual sales were below forecasted sales for a specific time period. Purchase price variance is used to evaluate differences between supply prices paid and the standard cost of materials and supplies. Material yield variance is used to determine differences in actual level of supply use and level of use expected in production efforts. Fixed overhead spending variance is used to determine why overhead costs exceeded their standard cost for a reporting period. 
SOURCE: FI:661 Discuss the use of variance analysis in managerial accounting
SOURCE: Bragg, S. (2023, May 14). Variance analysis definition. Retrieved September 29, 2023, from
https://www.accountingtools.com/articles/what-is-variance-analysis.html 

83. A statement of equity helps companies make decisions about how to 
A. reinvest their retained earnings.
B. organize income statements.
C. control their production costs.
D. analyze financial trends.

83. A
Reinvest their retained earnings. Retained earnings are the income the business keeps after dividends are paid. Businesses report their retained earnings on the statement of equity, which is also called the statement of retained earnings. The statement of equity shows how much money the business has at the end of an accounting period. This knowledge enables the business to make decisions about how to use the money, which may include remodeling facilities, buying new computer equipment, hiring staff, or developing new products. The statement of equity will not help the business make decisions about how to analyze financial trends, control its production costs, or organize income statements. 
SOURCE: FI:630 Explain the nature of statements of changes in equity
SOURCE: Carlson, R. (2021, April 15). How to prepare a statement of retained earnings. Retrieved September
29, 2023, from https://www.thebalancemoney.com/statement-of-retained-earnings-393591 

88. To enable capital to flow more freely across their national borders, many countries around the world have 
A. encouraged foreign investors to demonstrate a home bias.
B. removed limits on foreigners' access to domestic financial markets.
C. moved from floating exchange rates to fixed exchange rates.
D. increased tariffs on imports and lowered taxes on international transactions.

88. B
Removed limits on foreigners' access to domestic financial markets. Liberalization and deregulation have had a positive effect on financial globalization. Many nations have removed limits on foreigners' access to their domestic financial markets so that it is easier for foreigners to invest in their countries. Moving from fixed exchange rates to floating exchange rates (not the other way around) has helped increase global investment in foreign markets. Decreased tariffs on imports and lowered taxes on international transactions make it easier for capital to flow across international borders. A home bias is a preference for investments in domestic markets versus markets in other countries. Nations hoping to attract foreign investment want investors in other countries to eliminate (rather than demonstrate) their home biases and invest their funds internationally. 
SOURCE: FI:575 Explain the nature and scope of financial globalization
SOURCE: Narayanan, D. (2022, March 29). Financial globalization - Is it all good? Retrieved September 29,
2023, from https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/financial-globalization-all-good-deepak-narayanan 

93. The largest, most liquid financial market in the world is the __________ market. 
A. commodity
B. foreign exchange
C. equity
D. debt

93. B
Foreign exchange. The largest, most liquid financial market in the world is the foreign exchange market. There are typically more active traders and a higher volume of trading on the foreign exchange market than any of the other markets. Very liquid markets such as the foreign exchange market experience very gradual, small price changes, while markets with low liquidity often experience volatile changes in price, meaning that prices change abruptly and in larger increments than in highly liquid markets. The debt market is also known as the bond market, and the equity market is also called the stock market. A commodity market deals with raw, primary products such as oil, silver, gold, etc. 
SOURCE: FI:337 Explain types of financial markets (e.g., money market, capital market, insurance market,
commodities markets, etc.) 
SOURCE: Dummies.com. (2016, March 26). Liquidity and the foreign exchange market. Retrieved September
29, 2023, from https://www.dummies.com/article/business-careers-money/personalfinance/investing/general-investing/liquidity-and-the-foreign-exchange-market-199884 FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 23 

95. Which of the following are types of lending investments: 
A. Savings accounts, collectibles, and stocks
B. Certificates of deposit, stocks, and real estate
C. Bonds, certificates of deposit, and collectibles
D. Money market accounts, certificates of deposit, and bonds

95. D
Money market accounts, certificates of deposit, and bonds. Investments in which individuals allow borrowers to use their money for a period of time for a specified fee or rate of interest are lending investments. Money market accounts, certificates of deposit, bonds, and savings accounts are types of lending investments. Investments in which individuals purchase a portion or all of an item are called ownership investments. Collectibles, stocks, and real estate are types of ownership investments. 
SOURCE: FI:077 Explain types of investments
SOURCE: LAP-FI-077—Invest for Success (Types of Investments)

6. When you use money to make money, you are 
A. saving.
B. investing.
C. reimbursing.
D. rationing.

6. B
Investing. Using money to make money is called investing. Saving is setting aside part of your current income for future use. Rationing is a function of relative prices that determines who gets the goods and services produced—it is determining how scarce resources will be distributed. Reimbursing involves paying back or refunding money that someone has spent. 
SOURCE: FI:270 Explain the need to save and invest
SOURCE: Frankel, M. (2023, June 20). What to invest in: Use your money to make money. Retrieved August 3,
2023, from https://www.fool.com/investing/how-to-invest/what-to-invest-in/ 

16. Aiden is considering moving out of his parents' house and into his own apartment. Before he makes such a big financial decision, he should 
A. ask his parents if they will pay for his new apartment.
B. quit his job so that he has more time to plan.
C. apply for a personal loan from a bank.
D. consider how the move will affect his budget.

16. D
Consider how the move will affect his budget. Before making any financial decision, you should carefully consider the potential consequences. In Aiden's case, he should consider how moving to an apartment and paying rent will impact his personal budget. Only after careful consideration and planning should he make a decision. He shouldn't ask his parents to pay for his apartment, since that would be inappropriate. Moving to an apartment generally symbolizes the start of a young person's adult life, and most adults pay for their own living arrangements. It would be unwise for Aiden to quit his job if he is considering moving out, since he will need the income to pay for rent. Aiden shouldn't apply for any loans before deciding if he will be moving. 
SOURCE: FI:783 Make responsible financial decisions
SOURCE: Bellhops. (2023, February 24). How to move out of your parents' house—all you need to know.
Retrieved August 3, 2023, from https://www.getbellhops.com/blog/move-out-parents-house/ 

33. Max set a financial goal of saving $2,000 in the next year. On a whim, Max saw a new video game that he wanted, so instead of putting a portion of his paycheck in his savings account, he used that money to purchase the game. What barrier is preventing Max from reaching his goal? 
A. Impulsive spending
B. Overuse of credit
C. Unexpected needs
D. Loss of income

33. A
Impulsive spending. Many situations can prevent individuals from reaching their financial goals. When people lose their jobs or need to get their cars fixed, their financial goals may be temporarily sidetracked. Overuse of credit cards can also affect an individual's ability to achieve their financial goals. An individual who must pay off credit card debt has less money available to save and invest. In Max's situation, impulsive spending derailed his financial goals. He saw something that he wanted right away, so he bought it without thinking about the consequences. It will likely take Max longer to reach his savings goal. A video game is considered a want, not a need, so unexpected needs did not hinder Max from reaching his goal. Max did not lose income; he simply chose to spend his earnings impulsively. 
SOURCE: FI:065 Set financial goals
SOURCE: Christensen, T. (2022, April 6). Impulse spending explained. Retrieved August 3, 2023, from
https://moneyfit.org/impulse-spending 

37. Before a restaurant manager can close the restaurant for the night, what task must they complete? 
A. Cash reconciliation
B. Bank reconciliation
C. Financial ratio analysis
D. An internal audit

37. A
Cash reconciliation. Cash reconciliation is the process of verifying the amount of cash in a register at the end of a business day. It allows businesses to keep track of cash flow. The manager of a restaurant should perform cash reconciliation before closing the restaurant down for the night. Bank reconciliation, internal audits, and financial ratio analysis are not completed on a nightly basis. 
SOURCE: FI:396 Reconcile cash
SOURCE: Bragg, S. (2023, June 19). Cash reconciliation definition. Retrieved August 4, 2023, from
https://www.accountingtools.com/articles/what-is-a-cash-reconciliation.html 

44. Items of value are listed under which of the following components of the balance sheet: 
A. Notes
B. Assets
C. Liabilities
D. Owner's equity

44. B
Assets. Items of value are called assets on balance sheets. Liabilities are debts. Owner's equity is what's left over after liabilities have been subtracted from assets. The notes section of the balance sheet contains additional, relevant information, such as notes about what types of accounting policies were used. 
SOURCE: FI:093 Explain the nature of balance sheets
SOURCE: LAP-FI-093—The Right Balance (The Nature of Balance Sheets)

47. Sunny Side Up Cafe is a small, family-owned business in a quiet part of town. The restaurant does not accept credit cards—only cash. Which of the following is the most likely reason for the restaurant to refuse credit cards: 
A. Residents never carry credit cards.
B. The town restricts use of credit cards.
C. The business owners are old.
D. Credit cards have high processing fees.

47. D
Credit cards have high processing fees. When businesses accept credit cards, they are required to give some of the money from each sale they make to several third parties—such as the card provider, the banks that are involved, and various credit card associations. These processing fees can sometimes make accepting credit cards too expensive for small businesses that sell inexpensive items like breakfast foods. It is unlikely that the cafe decided to refuse credit cards because the owners are old, because residents never carry credit cards, or due to town restrictions. 
SOURCE: FI:790 Calculate credit-card processing costs
SOURCE: Williams, R. (2022, August 15). Credit card processing fees and costs. Retrieved August 4, 2023,
from https://www.valuepenguin.com/what-credit-card-processing-fees-costs 

53. Which of the following would be categorized as a fixed expense on a personal budget: 
A. Grocery expenses
B. Rent payments
C. Entertainment costs
D. Cost of gasoline

53. B
Rent payments. Fixed expenses are costs that stay relatively the same each month. Fixed expenses are generally costs that are required to maintain a decent standard of living, such as rent, car payments, internet service, and trash pickup. Grocery expenses, entertainment costs, and gasoline costs are considered variable expenses because they may vary significantly from month to month. 
SOURCE: FI:066 Develop personal budget
SOURCE: Lake, R. (2022, October 19). Budgets: Everything you need to know. Retrieved August 3, 2023,
from https://www.thebalance.com/how-to-make-a-budget-1289587 

78. The first step in the accounting cycle is 
A. posting to ledgers.
B. journalizing financial transactions.
C. analyzing financial transactions.
D. preparing financial statements.

78. C
Analyzing financial transactions. The first step in the accounting cycle is to analyze financial transactions. The accounting process begins with the collection of source documents for the business's financial transactions, which can include sales, purchases, or returns. After collecting this documentation, the business analyzes each transaction, determines the transaction amount, and identifies the accounts that the transaction affects. After this, the transactions can be journalized and posted to ledgers. When the books have been balanced, the business can prepare financial statements. 
SOURCE: FI:085 Explain the concept of accounting
SOURCE: LAP-FI-085—Show Me the Money (Nature of Accounting)

8. Which of the following statements about cash flow statements is true: 
A. There is only one way to calculate cash flow.
B. They typically aren't useful to investors.
C. Another name for them is income statements.
D. They summarize the cash entering and leaving a company.

8. D
They summarize the cash entering and leaving a company. A cash flow statement is a financial summary with estimates as to when, where, and how much money will flow into and out of a business. Essentially, they summarize the amount of cash entering and leaving a company. Income statements are different from cash flow statements, as income statements show how much money the business has made or has lost over a period of time. Cash flow statements are important to investors because they tell them how the company is doing financially, which can help them make more informed decisions about their investments. There are two methods for calculating cash flow: the direct method and the indirect method. 
SOURCE: FI:541 Interpret cash-flow statements
SOURCE: Murphy, C.B. (2023, December 18). Cash flow statement: What it is and examples. Retrieved
November 21, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/investing/what-is-a-cash-flow-statement 

21. Which of the following is a benefit of increased technology use in accounting: 
A. Improved real-time reporting
B. Longer auditing processes
C. Enhanced altruism
D. Greater costs

21. A
Improved real-time reporting. Increased technology use in accounting has numerous benefits, including faster and more accurate reporting and enhanced business insights. Longer auditing processes is a drawback, not a benefit—technology often expedites audits. Greater costs are also a drawback. Altruism is the principle of concern for others’ welfare. It is likely not related to increased technology use in accounting. 
SOURCE: FI:352 Explain the use of technology in accounting
SOURCE: Heller, I. (2022, November 30). How technology is transforming accounting. Retrieved November 28,
2023, from https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbestechcouncil/2022/11/30/how-technology-istransforming-accounting/ 

22. A retailer allows only a couple of people to handle its cash or make transactions on behalf of the company. What cash control method is the retailer using? 
A. Proper authorization
B. Rotating employees
C. Physical controls
D. Adequate documents and records

22. A
Proper authorization. Cash is a liquid, desirable, and portable asset, and companies must have controls in place to prevent theft or other misuse of cash. Proper authorization is a cash control in which only certain people are authorized to handle cash or make cash transactions on behalf of the company. The company in this scenario is not rotating employees, using adequate documents and records, or implementing physical controls. Rotating employees means moving employees from one task to another, making it easier for the new employee to uncover any wrongdoings or mistakes of the previous employee. Adequate documents and records refer to forwarding documents to the necessary individuals and properly recording information. Physical controls include cash registers only containing enough cash to handle customer transactions, removing excess cash from registers after each shift, and storing important financial information in locked, fireproof locations. 
SOURCE: FI:113 Explain cash control procedures (e.g., signature cards, deposit slips, internal/external
controls, cash clearing, etc.) 
SOURCE: CliffsNotes. (2023). Cash controls. Retrieved November 21, 2023, from
https://www.cliffsnotes.com/study-guides/accounting/accounting-principles-i/cash/cash-controls 2024 HS ICDC HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 6 

24. Which of the following are examples of operating expenses a business may pay: 
A. Utility costs and interest
B. Rent and loan payments
C. Payroll and benefits
D. Supplies and start-up money

24. C
Payroll and benefits. Operating expenses, which are all of the expenses involved in running the business, are often one of the largest sources of money flowing out of a business. There are several operating expenses businesses pay, including payroll, benefits, rent, utility costs, supplies, and advertising fees, among others. Payroll and benefits are some of the most important operating expenses, as businesses must pay employees for their labor and offer benefits such as health insurance, paid vacation and sick time, and retirement savings to full-time employees. Loans are a source of cash flowing into and out of a business, and they are not typically categorized as operating expenses. Interest and start-up money are ways in which money flows into a business, rather than out of it like operating expenses. 
SOURCE: FI:091 Describe the nature of cash flow statements
SOURCE: LAP-FI-091—Count the Cash (Cash Flow Statements)

38. Which of the following documents authorizes a person to take over your financial matters if you are incapable: 
A. Advance care directive
B. Living will
C. Will
D. Power of attorney

38. D
Power of attorney. A power of attorney is an essential estate-planning document. It authorizes a person to take over your financial matters if you are incapable. An advance care directive, sometimes called a living will, identifies your medical and end-of-life care decisions. A will states who owns your belongings and assets after you pass away. 
SOURCE: FI:572 Explain the nature of estate planning
SOURCE: Sember, B. (2023, September 1). 4 essential estate planning documents. Retrieved November 17,
2023, from https://www.legalzoom.com/articles/4-essential-estate-planning-documents 

58. Where do collectibles like baseball cards and comic books fall on the investment risk pyramid? 
A. Moderate-risk
B. High-risk
C. Low-risk
D. Minimal-risk

58. B
High-risk. One way to put your investment risk in perspective is to look at the risk pyramid, a graphic way of comparing investments. With high-, moderate-, and low-risk categories, the pyramid helps you see which investments are more or less risky than others. Near the peak are the riskiest investments, like collectibles (e.g., baseball cards, comic books), while the most reliable returns, like savings accounts and bonds, are at the base. 
SOURCE: FI:077 Explain types of investments
SOURCE: LAP-FI-077—Invest for Success (Types of Investments)

95. A company's total processing fees for the month were $8,219.90, while its total sales for the same period were $118,229.07. What is the company’s effective rate for credit card processing? 
A. 6.95%
B. 3.3%
C. 10.3%
D. 8.99%

95. A
6.95%. An effective rate is the average percentage a merchant pays to process a credit card transaction. The formula to calculate effective rate is: (Total amount deducted for processing / total monthly sales) x 100. When inserting the information from this scenario, the formula is: (8,219.90 / 118,229.07) x 100 = 6.95%. 
SOURCE: FI:790 Calculate credit-card processing costs
SOURCE: Rej, M. (2023, April 10). How do you calculate processing rates? Retrieved November 16, 2023,
from https://merchantcostconsulting.com/lower-credit-card-processing-fees/how-do-you-calculateprocessing-rates 2024 HS ICDC HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 23 

36. As Ross develops his departmental budget, he must demonstrate the need for every expense and not rely on historical data. What method of budgeting is Ross using? 
A. Master
B. Rolling
C. Zero-based
D. Relational

36. C
Zero-based. Budgets are estimations of income and expenses. In zero-based budgeting, managers are required to show the need for every expense that they expect their departments or companies to incur within a set time period. A rolling or continuous budget replaces each passing month with a new month added to the end of the budget, so that there is always a year-long budget in place. A master budget is a comprehensive budget for the entire company and includes all company functions and departments. Relational is not a type of budget. 
SOURCE: FI:106 Describe the nature of budgets
SOURCE: LAP-FI-106—Money Tracks (Nature of Budgets)

43. Which of the following is a sign of legitimate investment opportunities: 
A. Requesting payment by wiring money to a personal account
B. Realistic assessment of potential returns
C. Promises of risk-free investment opportunities
D. Pressure to invest as soon as possible

43. B
Realistic assessment of potential returns. A financial professional who is presenting a legitimate investment opportunity will provide a realistic assessment of potential returns. Promises of risk-free investment opportunities, pressure to invest as soon as possible, and requesting payment by wiring money to a personal account are warning signs of investment fraud. 
SOURCE: FI:077 Explain types of investments
SOURCE: LAP-FI-077—Invest for Success (Types of Investments)

48. A credit plan that allows customers to make purchases that are within their credit limit and pay all or part of the balance due each month is referred to as a(n) __________ credit plan. 
A. budget
B. open
C. revolving
D. coupon

48. C
Revolving. A revolving credit account limits the total amount of money that may be owed. Revolving account customers who do not pay the full amount each month are charged interest on the unpaid balance. A budget credit plan is a short-term credit plan, typically for two to three months. An open (account) credit plan is a regular credit plan requiring payment in full at the end of each credit period. A coupon credit plan issues coupons to be paid for over a period of time and to be used by customers in making purchases. 
SOURCE: FI:002 Explain the purposes and importance of credit
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance)

58. Separating responsibilities for cash transactions is one way businesses try to prevent 
A. refunds.
B. competition.
C. fraud.
D. debt collection.

58. C
Fraud. Separating responsibilities so that no one person oversees the life span of a single financial transaction is one way that businesses try to prevent fraud, which is criminal deception committed for financial gain. If more than one person is involved in the transaction, successfully committing fraud becomes much more difficult. Separating business responsibilities does not prevent competition, refunds, or debt collection. 
SOURCE: FI:113 Explain cash control procedures (e.g., signature cards, deposit slips, internal/external
controls, cash clearing, etc.) 
SOURCE: AccountingTools. (2023, February 26). Separation of duties. Retrieved September 26, 2023, from
https://www.accountingtools.com/articles/what-is-separation-of-duties.html HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 14 

61. James wants to borrow $2,500 to buy a car. Which of the following financial institutions is most likely to lend James the money: 
A. Retail bank
B. Financial holding company
C. Mortgage company
D. Investment bank

61. A
Retail bank. Retail banks offer a variety of services for consumers including checking and savings accounts, credit cards, and automobile loans. An investment bank is a financial intermediary that underwrites securities and facilitates mergers. Mortgage companies process loans specifically designed for the purchase of real estate—land, residences, and other types of buildings. Financial holding companies own one or more commercial banks and/or investment banks. 
SOURCE: FI:075 Describe types of financial-services providers
SOURCE: Majaski, C. (2023, May 18). Retail banking vs. corporate banking: What's the difference? Retrieved
September 26, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/articles/general/071213/retail-banking-vscommercial-banking.asp 

72. What is one thing you can do to protect yourself from becoming a victim of identity theft? 
A. Use unusual passwords rather than your birth date to access your bank accounts.
B. Always pay with cash rather than credit cards or check.
C. Keep your passport with you at all times.
D. Place your Social Security number on all documents.

72. A
Use unusual passwords rather than your birth date to access your bank accounts. Identity theft occurs when somebody uses another individual's name and personal information (e.g., credit cards) for fraudulent purposes. Identity theft can occur even when you take precautions. To reduce the risk of identity theft, use unusual passwords to access your personal bank accounts rather than common information such as your birth date. To further prevent identity theft, do not place your Social Security number on unnecessary documents. Many people do not have passports. Paying with cash is not always a good idea, because cancelled bank checks serve as a receipt for payments. If you pay your bills by sending cash, the envelope may get lost, and you will have no record of making the payment. In addition, using credit cards wisely can help you build a good credit report, which will help you obtain loans for expensive items (e.g., a car) in the future. 
SOURCE: FI:073 Protect against identity theft
SOURCE: Capital One. (2022, September 20). 7 tips to protect yourself from identity theft. Retrieved
September 26, 2023, from https://www.capitalone.com/learn-grow/privacy-security/identity-theftprevention/ 

86. A coffee shop wants to appeal to young, tech-savvy consumers. To appeal to this demographic, the business should consider 
A. purchasing a receipt printer.
B. gathering analytics from credit card payments.
C. accepting mobile credit card payments.
D. instituting a minimum amount for credit card payments.

86. C
Accepting mobile credit card payments. Businesses have a lot to consider when deciding whether or not to accept credit card payments—and how to accept credit card payments. Mobile credit cards are increasingly popular with the younger, tech-savvy demographic, so the coffee shop should consider accepting mobile credit card payments. Instituting a minimum amount for credit card payments, gathering analytics from credit card payments, and purchasing a receipt printer are not necessarily related to appealing to a young, tech-savvy demographic. 
SOURCE: FI:789 Discuss considerations in accepting credit-card payments
SOURCE: Stripe. (2023, January 30). How to accept mobile credit card payments. Retrieved September 26,
2023, from https://stripe.com/resources/more/how-to-accept-mobile-credit-card-payments 

6. If you do not keep up with the balance of your checking account, you might 
A. have your identity stolen.
B. prevent fraudulent charges.
C. challenge the bank's authority.
D. incur fees and penalties.

6. D
Incur fees and penalties. If you are not aware of the deposits and purchases in your checking account, you might incur fees and penalties for overdrawing your account or having a check bounce. Not keeping up with your checking account balance will not necessarily lead to having your identity stolen. You will not prevent fraudulent charges or challenge the bank's authority by not keeping up with the balance of your checking account. 
SOURCE: FI:069 Maintain financial records
SOURCE: Tropical Financial Credit Union. (2023, August 2). Tips to keep your checking account balanced.
Retrieved August 2, 2023, from https://www.tropicalfcu.com/blog/tips-to-keep-your-checkingaccount-balanced 

13. Which of the following is a benefit of whole life insurance: 
A. The policyholder earns interest at current rates.
B. It combines death benefits with a savings plan.
C. The policyholder can borrow the policy's cash value.
D. It has lower premiums than term insurance.

13. C
The policyholder can borrow the policy's cash value. A whole life insurance policy builds cash value as the policyholder pays premiums at regular intervals. If, at some point, the policyholder needs a loan, they can borrow the cash value of the policy. Universal life insurance combines death benefits with an investment and savings plan that earns interest at current market rates. Whole life insurance rates are higher than term insurance rates because term insurance only pays death benefits if the policyholder dies during the set period of time covered by the policy. 
SOURCE: FI:081 Describe the concept of insurance
SOURCE: Rose, G. (2023, May 10). Term life vs. whole life insurance: Differences and how to choose.
Retrieved August 2, 2023, from https://www.nerdwallet.com/article/insurance/term-vs-whole-lifeinsurance 

19. Effective budgets should always be 
A. secretive.
B. evaluated.
C. optimistic.
D. inflexible.

19. B
Evaluated. An effective budget is one that is evaluated regularly. The real value of a budget comes in using it to assess the company's progress in achieving its goals. A budget must be evaluated from time to time to move the business forward. Budgets should not be optimistic; rather, they should be realistic. It's important to base budgets on realistic estimates. If a business isn't honest with its budget, the budget won't be very helpful. Because budgets are estimates, it's crucial that they remain flexible. There will always be factors outside a business's control that may require a change in the budget. Budgets shouldn't be secretive; instead, they should be clearly communicated with all employees. When each person in the company is aware of their effect on the company's profits, they will be more motivated to be cost-conscious. 
SOURCE: FI:106 Describe the nature of budgets
SOURCE: LAP-FI-106—Money Tracks (Nature of Budgets)

50. An arrangement that allows customers to purchase and use goods or services and pay for them at a future time is referred to as a __________ sale. 
A. credit
B. cash
C. budget
D. layaway

50. A
Credit. There are different kinds of credit accounts that allow customers to buy now and pay later. These include budget accounts, which are usually short-term credit arrangements, but the sales are not referred to as budget sales. In a cash sale, the full price is paid at the time of purchase. A layaway sale is a type of credit sale in which the customer does not take possession of the good or service until all payments have been made. 
SOURCE: FI:002 Explain the purposes and importance of credit
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance)

72. To make sure he develops a realistic personal budget, Marcel should always 
A. verify his past credit rating.
B. track and record his expenses.
C. pay his bills on time.
D. consult with a bookkeeper.

72. B
Track and record his expenses. Realistic personal budgets involve two important considerations—income (money Marcel receives) and expenses (money Marcel spends). It is important for Marcel to track his expenses because he needs to make sure that he has enough income to pay for his bills (e.g., rent, utilities, car). To track his spending, Marcel should record his expenses in a central location so he can see bill amounts and bill due dates. Recording and keeping receipts is also important for tax reporting purposes and for tax auditing situations. Developing a realistic budget does not always involve verifying a past credit rating or consulting with a bookkeeper. Marcel should develop a budget that will support his ability to pay his bills on time. 
SOURCE: FI:066 Develop personal budget
SOURCE: Huntington. (2023). Create a personal budget: How to make a budget. Retrieved August 2, 2023,
from https://www.huntington.com/learn/budgeting/how-to-make-a-budget 

75. Accountants perform a service for clients, no matter whether those clients are individuals or businesses, but they also provide information that can drastically affect the economy as a whole. Many people can be impacted by the information an accountant provides; therefore, accountants have a responsibility to look out for the greater good. What key ethical accounting principle focuses on looking out for the greater good as a whole, not just for themselves or their clients? 
A. Transparency and full disclosure
B. Due care
C. The public interest
D. Objectivity and independence

75. C
The public interest. Accountants have a responsibility to look out for the greater good of the public as a whole, not just for themselves or their clients. The principle of due care means performing the role of accountant as well as possible. Transparency means maintaining honest and open communication, and full disclosure means providing all the necessary information to help readers understand financial information. Objectivity and independence mean making decisions without favoritism or prejudice and being fair to everyone involved. 
SOURCE: FI:351 Discuss the role of ethics in accounting
SOURCE: LAP-FI-351—With Due Care (The Role of Ethics in Accounting)

8. McKenzie purchases insurance that will cover repairs for her home in the event of a disaster or occurrence that damages it. McKenzie has purchased __________ coverage. 
A. dwelling
B. personal liability
C. personal property
D. loss of use

8. A
Dwelling. Dwelling coverage is a type of home insurance that covers the costs to repair or rebuild a homeowner’s house if it is damaged or destroyed. Personal property coverage pays for an individual’s personal items, such as furniture, clothing, or electronics. Personal liability coverage helps protect a homeowner if a legal suit is brought against them for bodily injury or property damage. Loss of use coverage helps homeowners pay for additional expenses they have incurred while their house is being repaired or restored. 
SOURCE: FI:571 Determine insurance needs
SOURCE: Travelers. (2022). Home insurance coverage. Retrieved October 6, 2023, from
https://www.travelers.com/home-insurance/coverage 

45. Which of the following statements regarding cash flow is true: 
A. Businesses that make a profit do not experience cash-flow problems.
B. For a business to make a profit, money must flow out of the business.
C. Cash flow is calculated by dividing total cash paid out by total cash receipts.
D. Once established, sales are usually the primary source of cash flowing into a business.

45. D
Once established, sales are usually the primary source of cash flowing into a business. Cash flow is the movement of funds into and out of a business. Money must flow into a business—not out of it—for it to make a profit. One of the ways money flows into a business is through the sale of products. Once established, sales are the primary source of cash flowing into the business. For example, a music store receives payments from the sale of instruments, equipment, and supplies. It also receives money for services such as lessons and repairs. Cash flow is calculated by subtracting—not dividing—total cash paid out from total cash receipts. Even businesses that make a profit may experience cash-flow problems, depending on the sources of cash flowing in. 
SOURCE: FI:091 Describe the nature of cash flow statements
SOURCE: LAP-FI-091—Count the Cash (Cash Flow Statements)

80. Fiat money is backed by 
A. silver.
B. a government.
C. renewable energy.
D. gold.

80. B
A government. Fiat money is any currency that is not backed by a physical commodity but rather the government that issued it. The government itself is responsible for maintaining the value of the currency since it is not tied to a physical resource. Fiat money is not backed by any physical commodities, including gold, silver, and renewable energy sources. 
SOURCE: FI:059 Identify types of currency (paper money, coins, banknotes, government bonds, treasury
notes, etc.) 
SOURCE: Chen, J. (2023, July 5). Fiat money. Retrieved September 22, 2023, from
https://www.investopedia.com/terms/f/fiatmoney.asp 

96. Charitable donations must be __________ to be deducted from tax returns. 
A. itemized
B. less than $100,000 in value
C. given to for-profit organizations
D. in cash

96. A
Itemized. An itemized deduction is an expense that can be subtracted from an individual’s or company’s adjusted gross income. Tax payers typically choose between a standard or itemized deduction, but in the case of charitable donations, they must choose the itemized deduction. Charitable donations do not have to be donated in cash to be tax deductible. Donations can also take the form of property and services. Deductible donations can exceed $100,000 as long as they are less than 60% of adjusted gross income. Charitable donations must be given to nonprofit or volunteer organizations to be deductible. 
SOURCE: FI:567 Explain the nature of charitable giving
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2023, June 30). Charitable donation. Retrieved October 6, 2023, from
https://www.investopedia.com/terms/c/charitabledonation.asp 

12. When Aaron receives what looks like an email from his bank asking him to verify his account information, he replies with his account number, phone number, and social security number. However, Aaron soon finds out that the email wasn't from his bank at all—it was from a scammer. Aaron is the victim of 
A. a computer virus.
B. a break-in.
C. phishing.
D. key logging.

12. C
Phishing. Phishing occurs when an email that appears to be from a reputable source (like your bank, a store, a credit card company, or an online auction site) is actually from a scam artist. The email might ask for personal information like account numbers, which the scammer is likely to use to access the victim's funds. Key loggers record your keystrokes, enabling someone to record your passwords and account numbers as you type them. Aaron is not the victim of key logging, a break-in, or a computer virus. 
SOURCE: FI:073 Protect against identity theft
SOURCE: O'Shea, B. (2023, February 7). Identity theft: What it is, how to prevent it, warning signs and tips.
Retrieved September 18, 2023, from https://www.nerdwallet.com/article/finance/how-to-preventidentity-theft 

20. Naomi's company purchases property for the location of a new motorcycle dealership. A month later, she runs the numbers again and discovers it doesn't make financial sense to open a new store. She convinces herself that the new location will bring in plenty of money and that the company shouldn't worry. Naomi's decisionmaking is affected by 
A. obedience to authority.
B. loss aversion.
C. incrementalism.
D. sunk costs.

20. D
Sunk costs. Sunk costs are costs that have already been incurred and thus cannot be recovered. If you have already invested in something, it is difficult to admit that it was not the right decision, especially when there is nothing you can do about it. Loss aversion is the tendency to avoid a loss at all costs, even when attempting to avoid that loss can lead to negative consequences. Obedience to authority refers to the natural tendency to want to please authority figures. Incrementalism refers to the diminishing of ethical values over time. 
SOURCE: FI:355 Discuss the role of ethics in finance
SOURCE: LAP-FI-355--Money Morals (The Role of Ethics in Finance)

23. When preparing her tax return, Lynnette listed the interest that she paid on her student loan as 
A. investment income.
B. an itemized deduction.
C. a tax-exempt investment.
D. taxable earnings.

23. B
An itemized deduction. The government allows taxpayers to itemize or list certain expenses on their tax returns to reduce the amount of taxable income. These expenses include charitable donations, a percentage of medical expenses, business expenses, and interest paid on some types of loans. Investment earnings, such as dividend payments, are taxable income. The federal government does not tax certain types of investments, such as municipal bonds. 
SOURCE: FI:074 Prepare personal income tax forms
SOURCE: IRS. (2023, April 6). Topic number 456, student loan interest deduction. Retrieved September 19,
2023, from https://www.irs.gov/taxtopics/tc456 MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 6 

73. When determining personal net worth, how are personal liabilities handled? 
A. They have to be eliminated first.
B. They are not used in the calculations.
C. They are subtracted from the net worth subtotal.
D. They are subtracted from the total of assets.

73. D
They are subtracted from the total of assets. To determine personal net worth, a person's assets are first totaled, and then personal liabilities are subtracted. Net worth does not appear as a subtotal and cannot be determined before liabilities are subtracted. It is not necessary to eliminate liabilities before calculating personal net worth. 
SOURCE: FI:562 Determine personal net worth
SOURCE: Ganti, A. (2023, March 9). Net worth: What it is and how to calculate it. Retrieved September 18,
2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/n/networth.asp#toc-how-to-calculate-net-worth 

93. One advantage to businesses using electronic funds transfer technology to collect accounts receivable is that it eliminates 
A. payee outsourcing.
B. check processing.
C. liquidity reporting.
D. sales discounting.

93. B
Check processing. The technology of electronic funds transfer makes it possible for customers to pay invoices electronically so the cash is transferred from their bank account to the business's bank account. This eliminates the need for the business to handle checks, fill out deposit slips, and send the checks to the bank for processing. The cash is available immediately, and the business does not need to wait for a check to be processed before it can access the funds. The use of electronic funds transfer to collect accounts receivable does not eliminate liquidity reporting, sales discounting, or payee outsourcing. 
SOURCE: FI:352 Explain the use of technology in accounting
SOURCE: EBANX. (n.d.). Electronic funds transfer (EFT). Retrieved September 18, 2023, from
https://www.ebanx.com/en/resources/payments-explained/electronic-funds-transfer-eft MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 22 

