67. A tool that businesses can use to orient new employees is a(n) 
A. performance appraisal.
B. employee handbook.
C. job resume.
D. exit interview.

67. B
Employee handbook. An employee handbook provides new employees with information about the business that the employee can read and refer to when they have questions about the business. Employee handbooks usually include basic information such as company history, hours of operation, benefits, and company policies. Providing employees with handbooks reduces the amount of time that must be spent in orientation sessions. An exit interview is a discussion with an employee who is leaving the company. A performance appraisal is an evaluation of the employee's job performance. A job applicant provides a prospective employer with a copy of their resume, which outlines their work experience and educational background. 
SOURCE: HR:360 Orient new employees
SOURCE: Bamboo HR. (n.d.) Employee handbook. Retrieved August 9, 2023, from
https://www.bamboohr.com/resources/hr-glossary/employee-handbook 

16. Which of the following sensitive issues often causes ethical dilemmas for human resources managers: 
A. Education
B. Titles
C. Gender
D. Scheduling

16. C
Gender. Sensitive issues such as race, gender, and disabilities can cause difficult ethical dilemmas for human resources managers. While scheduling, education, and titles may cause issues for human resources managers, they are not likely to cause ethical dilemmas. 
SOURCE: HR:411 Explain the role of ethics in human resources management
SOURCE: LAP-HR-411—Moral Mediators (Ethics in Human Resources Management)
2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 4 

35. Which of the following is an onboarding activity: 
A. Exit interviews
B. Grievances
C. Compliance
D. Orientation

35. D
Orientation. Orientation is an onboarding activity, an HR management activity that gets new employees started on the job. It may involve giving an employee a tour of the facilities and making introductions, giving the employee information about company procedures and policies, and familiarizing the employee with their new workspace and equipment. Compliance is an HR management activity that involves making sure the company is following laws and regulations. Grievances are formal employee complaints made to an HR representative. Exit interviews are conducted with an employee who is leaving, not one who is new to the job. 
SOURCE: HR:410 Discuss the nature of human resources management
SOURCE: LAP-HR-410—People Pusher (Nature of Human Resources Management)

60. An important function of human resources management in business is 
A. social media.
B. employee recruitment.
C. domain development.
D. capital investment.

60. B
Employee recruitment. Human resources management is the process of planning, staffing, leading, and organizing the employees of the business. An important aspect of the human resources function is seeking out and attracting qualified potential employees, which is employee recruitment. Capital investment, domain development, and social media are not primary activities of the human resources function in business. 
SOURCE: HR:410 Discuss the nature of human resources management
SOURCE: Pradhan, D. (2023, May 5). Recruitment in HR and how does it work? Retrieved August 3, 2023,
from https://www.forbes.com/advisor/in/business/what-is-recruitment-in-hr/ 

42. An applicant for a position as a checker-cashier was asked to ring a sale on the cash register and to balance the cash register based on specific figures and transactions. What management selection device is being used? 
A. Written test
B. Background investigation
C. Performance simulation test
D. Interview

42. C
Performance simulation test. What better way to find out if an applicant can do a job successfully than by having them do it? Realization of this fact has increased the usage of performance simulation tests, which are made up of actual job behaviors, rather than the substitutes found in written tests. An interview is a dialogue between the employer and potential employee. A background investigation may look into the applicant's previous work history or verify the information on an application. 
SOURCE: HR:356 Select and hire new employees
SOURCE: MBA Skool. (2011-2023). Performance simulation test. Retrieved August 11, 2023, from
https://www.mbaskool.com/business-concepts/human-resources-hr-terms/15689-performancesimulation-test.html ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 11 

57. When an employee complaint results in a change in company policy, a manager should make sure employees are aware of the change by having the employees 
A. sign a statement that they know about the new policy.
B. copy the policy into their personal notebooks.
C. verbally repeat the policy to another employee.
D. explain their interpretation of the new policy to a supervisor.

57. A
Sign a statement that they know about the new policy. Asking employees to sign such a statement keeps them from being able to say later that they didn't know about the new policy. Verbally repeating or explaining the policy to another employee or a supervisor, or copying the policy into personal notebooks, may ensure that the employees know about the policy, but the manager would have no documentation for future reference. 
SOURCE: HR:366 Handle employee complaints and grievances
SOURCE: Wolters Kluwer. (2020, December 9). How to effectively deal with employees' complaints. Retrieved
August 31, 2023, from https://www.wolterskluwer.com/en/expert-insights/how-to-effectively-dealwith-employees-complaints 

70. Which of the following is an example of an employee-assistance program: 
A. Corrective action
B. Compensation
C. Training on the use of dangerous power equipment
D. Career and education planning

70. D
Career and education planning. Career and education planning is an example of an employee-assistance program a company may offer. Employee-assistance programs are part of the HR management activity of employee relations. Compensation is pay for work completed, not extra assistance. Training on the use of dangerous power equipment is a compliance issue. Corrective action is a training and development issue that occurs when an employee’s performance is not up to standard. 
SOURCE: HR:410 Discuss the nature of human resources management
SOURCE: LAP-HR-410—People Pusher (Nature of Human Resources Management)
ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 17 

74. Which of the following guidelines would be the most appropriate for a supervisor to follow when administering remedial action: 
A. Take action in the presence of the employee's coworkers.
B. Let personnel handle minor problems with employees.
C. Delay taking action so that the connection between the infraction and the penalty becomes blurred.
D. Resume a normal attitude toward the employee as quickly as possible.

74. D
Resume a normal attitude toward the employee as quickly as possible. While the supervisor may find this difficult to do, it is important because expecting further problems with the employee may actually cause them to occur. The immediate supervisor should handle disciplinary action, particularly minor problems. Action should be taken promptly so that the connection between the infraction and the penalty does not become blurred. Remedial action should be taken in private, without coworkers present so that the employee's dignity and their status in the organization can be preserved. 
SOURCE: HR:369 Explain the nature of remedial action
SOURCE: UC Santa Barbara Human Resources. (2023). Taking corrective action. Retrieved August 11, 2023,
from https://www.hr.ucsb.edu/hr-units/employee-labor-relations/taking-corrective-action 

75. Evaluating an employee's performance by comparing it to the goals that were set for the job is part of a technique called 
A. management by objectives.
B. positive reinforcement.
C. rank-order technique.
D. affirmative action.

75. A
Management by objectives. The employee and the supervisor work together to set goals, or objectives, for the employee to meet during a certain time period. The employee is then evaluated on the basis of how well they met the goals. Rank-order technique ranks all employees in a department or division from best to worst. Affirmative action is an effort to create equality in the workplace through hiring, training, and promoting of members of groups that have been subjected to discrimination. Positive reinforcement is a technique in which people are given approval or rewarded for good performance. 
SOURCE: HR:368 Assess employee performance
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2023, March 28). Management by objectives (MBO). Retrieved August 11, 2023,
from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/m/management-by-objectives.asp ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 18 

13. Which of the following is a legal question for an employer to ask an interviewee during a job interview: 
A. Are you a U.S. citizen?
B. What makes you a strong candidate for this job?
C. How many children do you have?
D. Have you experienced any serious illnesses?

13. B
What makes you a strong candidate for this job? When interviewing a job candidate, employers should focus on the candidate's experience, qualifications, education, and skills rather than their personal life. Asking a candidate why they believe they are a strong candidate for a job focuses on the candidate’s experience and qualifications. It is inappropriate and illegal to ask about a candidate's age, marital or family status, citizenship, medical information, race or ethnicity, gender, religion, disability, height, and weight. 
SOURCE: HR:355 Interview job applicants
SOURCE: Heathfield, S.M. (2022, September 19). Illegal job interview questions. Retrieved January 11, 2024,
from https://www.thebalancemoney.com/job-interview-questions-that-are-illegal-1918488 

46. Which of the following are human resources professionals responsible for: 
A. Selling products to customers
B. Marketing services digitally
C. Training and developing employees
D. Packaging and shipping products

46. C
Training and developing employees. Human resources management focuses on staffing activities, including planning, recruitment, selection, orientation, training, developing, performance appraisal, compensation, and safety of employees. By training and developing employees, human resources professionals are contributing to business priorities and goals. Packaging and shipping products, selling products to customers, and marketing services digitally are not responsibilities of human resources professionals. 
SOURCE: HR:508 Coordinate human, capital, and fiscal resources to meet business priorities
SOURCE: Scott, S. (n.d.). Role of HR in achieving business goals. Retrieved January 19, 2024, from
https://smallbusiness.chron.com/role-hr-achieving-business-goals-1767.html 

58. Which of the following statements about an employee performance review is true: 
A. Managers should serve as judge and jury of an employee.
B. Performance and compensation conversations should be held at once.
C. The employee's behaviors and results should be the main focus.
D. Managers should inform employees of their review the day of.

58. C
The employee's behaviors and results should be the main focus. When conducting an employee performance review, managers should evaluate the employee's behaviors and results rather than their traits (attitude, leadership, motivation, etc.). Behaviors and results can be directly observed, whereas traits can be subjective and difficult to evaluate on a fair basis. Rather than the manager serving as judge and jury of an employee during a review, it should be a two-way process where the employee evaluates themselves too. Performance and compensation should not be discussed together during a performance review. Rather, the review should focus on development with a conversation about compensation coming at a later date. Managers should give their employees advanced notice and should schedule the review for a date and time that works well for the employee. 
SOURCE: HR:368 Assess employee performance
SOURCE: Gallagher, B.J. (2023, January 24). The dos and don'ts of performance reviews. Retrieved January
11, 2024, from https://www.amanet.org/articles/the-dos-and-donts-of-performance-reviews 

72. Which of the following is a capital resource: 
A. Gas for delivery trucks
B. Tax revenue
C. Desktop computers
D. Sales representatives

72. C
Desktop computers. Capital resources are assets that are man-made and are used in the production of other items. Different types of businesses have different capital resources, as a desktop computer is a capital resource for a computer services company just as a grill and kitchen utensils are capital resources for a restaurant. Tax revenue is a fiscal resource, or the financial assets and revenues available to an organization to fund its operations and projects. Sales representatives are human resources, or the people who work for a company to help achieve business goals. Gas for delivery trucks is a natural resource, or items such as gas, oil, and coal that occur naturally in the world. 
SOURCE: HR:508 Coordinate human, capital, and fiscal resources to meet business priorities
SOURCE: Bean-Mellinger, B. (2018, October 26). What are the differences in capital resource, human
resource, & natural resource? Retrieved January 19, 2024, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/differences-capital-resource-human-resource-natural-resource60792.html 

14. When a supervisor notifies employees that their performance is below standards and their jobs are in jeopardy, the supervisor should 
A. give verbal notification only.
B. post the notice on the bulletin board.
C. put the notice in writing.
D. email the employees.

14. C
Put the notice in writing. Putting the notice in writing provides documentation that the employee has been given notice if termination becomes necessary. The written notice serves as a warning and gives employees an opportunity to improve. Email notification would not provide a permanent written record and may violate confidentiality. Giving verbal notification only would not provide a record in case of termination. Posting the notice on the bulletin board would violate employee confidentiality. 
SOURCE: HR:358 Dismiss/Fire employees
SOURCE: EEOC. (n.d.). Recordkeeping requirements. Retrieved on October 2, 2023, from
https://www.eeoc.gov/employers/recordkeeping-requirements 

48. The last step in handling employee grievances should be to __________ the problem. 
A. consider
B. follow up on
C. analyze
D. identify

48. B
Follow up on. After allowing employees time to adjust to the solution, you should follow up on the situation to determine if the solution is effective and to what degree results have been achieved. Failure to do so would waste the time and energy previously devoted to resolving the problem. Identifying the real problem is the first step in handling employee grievances. This step should include gathering all available information about the situation and analyzing it. Considering solutions to the problem is the next step, followed by selecting the best solution, implementing the solution, and following up. 
SOURCE: HR:366 Handle employee complaints and grievances
SOURCE: TrackSmart. (2017, February 27). 6 steps to successful conflict resolution in the
workplace. Retrieved October 2, 2023, from http://blog.tracksmart.com/6-steps-successful-conflictresolution-workplace/ 

66. Why do interviewers usually focus on asking questions that are related to a job applicant's performance? 
A. To plan future training
B. To determine qualifications
C. To take remedial action
D. To understand complaints

66. B
To determine qualifications. The purpose of an interview is to determine if the applicant meets the qualifications to perform the job. Therefore, the interview questions should relate directly to the job in terms of the applicant's education, skills, training, and work history. Businesses often take remedial action with current employees who are not performing well on the job. Applicants usually do not complain during job interviews. Interviewers usually do not plan future training while asking questions during a job interview. 
SOURCE: HR:355 Interview job applicants
SOURCE: Enright, M. (2020, October 13). The do's and don'ts of conducting a job interview. Retrieved October
2, 2023, from https://www.wolterskluwer.com/en/expert-insights/the-dos-and-donts-of-conducting-ajob-interview 

72. A business is planning to hire a part-time employee for a newly created position. In order to select the best applicant to fill the position, the business must first 
A. determine the duties of the job.
B. prepare an online advertisement.
C. choose selection devices.
D. contact local recruitment sources.

72. A
Determine the duties of the job. The business must decide exactly what the worker will be doing on the job in order to choose the job applicant whose skills are most appropriate. After the job duties are defined, the firm can decide which methods to use in screening and selecting applicants and advertise the job opening or contact a local recruitment source for applicants. 
SOURCE: HR:356 Select and hire new employees
SOURCE: Wright State University. (2023). Writing an effective job description. Retrieved October 5, 2023, from
https://www.wright.edu/human-resources/writing-an-effective-job-description 

37. Human resources management has been influenced by modern employees' emphasis on 
A. unionization.
B. work-life balance.
C. maximizing wealth at any cost.
D. friendships.

37. B
Work-life balance. Human resources management has been influenced by modern employees' emphasis on work-life balance. HR managers may address this by offering more flexible work arrangements, such as remote work. Modern employees are not necessarily focused on friendships, unionization, or maximizing wealth at any cost. 
SOURCE: HR:410 Discuss the nature of human resources management
SOURCE: LAP-HR-410—People Pusher (Nature of Human Resources Management)
FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 9 

1. What can result from employees not respecting one another's lifestyles? 
A. Generational misunderstandings
B. An uncomfortable work environment
C. Language barriers
D. An increase in productivity

1. B
An uncomfortable work environment. Sometimes, employees do not respect each other's lifestyles and discriminate against each other because of them. When this occurs, employees might experience an uncomfortable work environment. This can damage productivity. Language barriers are a result of ethnic or cultural differences rather than differences in lifestyles. Generational misunderstandings are not a result of disrespecting lifestyle choices. 
SOURCE: HR:515 Discuss issues associated with workplace diversity (e.g., ethnic, generational, religious,
gender) 
SOURCE: Renee, M. (2019, March 6). Top 10 diversity issues at work. Retrieved August 4, 2023, from
https://smallbusiness.chron.com/top-10-diversity-issues-work-24939.html 

27. An HR manager is considering two different health care plans for their company. One is significantly cheaper but covers fewer medical conditions. This is an example of an ethical dilemma related to 
A. hiring and firing.
B. employment law.
C. race and gender.
D. compensation.

27. D
Compensation. Determining fair compensation can sometimes be a challenge for human resources managers. An example of compensation presenting an ethical dilemma is choosing a health care plan for employees. Deciding between a cheap but lower-quality health care plan and a more expensive but more comprehensive plan is not an example of an ethical dilemma related to hiring and firing, employment law, or race and gender. 
SOURCE: HR:411 Explain the role of ethics in human resources management
SOURCE: LAP-HR-411—Moral Mediators (Ethics in Human Resources Management)
HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 7 

76. In an effort to pressure their employer to meet their demands, every employee stops working and leaves their office building. This describes a 
A. strike.
B. arbitration.
C. boycott.
D. mediation.

76. A
Strike. A strike is a union pressure strategy in which employees stop working and leave their jobs. Arbitration is the act of settling a dispute by using an uninvolved third party. Mediation is the process in which a neutral third party works to help opposing parties resolve a conflict. A boycott is a union pressure strategy in which union members refuse to buy a company's products and encourage others to do the same. 
SOURCE: HR:452 Explain labor-relations issues
SOURCE: Phaneuf, T. (2023, September 26). What is a strike? Retrieved November 21, 2023, from
https://www.nerdwallet.com/article/finance/what-is-a-strike 

14. Rita is upset with her employer because she always has to work during important holidays. This is an issue most likely associated with which type of workplace diversity? 
A. Disability
B. Gender
C. Religion
D. Age

14. C
Religion. One issue associated with religious diversity is that different religions celebrate different holidays. If Rita has to work during her most important holidays, it is likely that her employer does not have a policy that accommodates religious diversity. Working during important holidays is not necessarily associated with gender, disability, or age. 
SOURCE: HR:515 Discuss issues associated with workplace diversity (e.g., ethnic, generational, religious,
gender) 
SOURCE: McFarlin, K. (n.d.). How to manage religious diversity in the workplace. Retrieved September 26,
2023, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/manage-religious-diversity-workplace-10718.html HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 4 

17. Which of the following activities typically occurs during new employee orientation: 
A. Contact with the employee's references
B. A tour of the business
C. A review of the employee's resume
D. A performance appraisal

17. B
A tour of the business. New employee orientation usually includes activities that will provide new employees with information about the business. Orientation also helps put new employees at ease and helps eliminate many of their anxieties about their new surroundings. Reviewing the employee's resume and contacting the employee's references are usually done before the business hires the employee. A performance appraisal is a tool that evaluates how well the employee performs their job duties. Employees receive performance appraisals after they have worked for a certain amount of time. 
SOURCE: HR:360 Orient new employees
SOURCE: Bamboo HR. (2023). New hire orientation. Retrieved August 2, 2023, from
https://www.bamboohr.com/resources/hr-glossary/employee-orientation MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 5 

