5. Which of the following is an example of a trade secret: 
A. Legal document
B. Credit report
C. Trade journal
D. Customer list

5. D
Customer list. A trade secret is information that a business develops or owns that can be used to obtain a competitive advantage or financial gain. Customer lists, recipes, production techniques, and research and development processes are examples of trade secrets. Businesses should develop procedures to protect trade secrets to reduce the risk of competitors obtaining the knowledge for use and gain. Trade journals, credit reports, and legal documents are not examples of trade secrets. 
SOURCE: KM:004 Explain legal considerations for knowledge management
SOURCE: McCants, T.S. (2023, August 1). Protecting trade secrets. Retrieved August 4, 2023,
from https://www.findlaw.com/smallbusiness/intellectual-property/protecting-trade-secrets.html 

9. A business captures its employees' knowledge of certain tasks, processes, and events by developing a chart that outlines the relationships among bits of information. This is an example of a business using a(n) __________ technique to capture and transfer knowledge. 
A. statistical
B. authority-based
C. diagram
D. transcription

9. C
Diagram. A business can use many different tools to capture and transfer knowledge in an organization. By diagramming the information, the business can draw relationships and make connections among different components of information. The business can analyze the diagram to determine efficiencies and inefficiencies within the business, or it can share the acquired knowledge with employees within the organization. The example is not using authority-based, statistical, or transcription techniques to capture and transfer knowledge within an organization. 
SOURCE: KM:005 Identify techniques that can be used to capture and transfer knowledge in an organization
SOURCE: Ding, O. (2021, December 25). Developing tacit knowledge. Retrieved August 4, 2023, from
https://medium.com/call4/developing-tacit-knowledge-b509e751583c BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 3 

22. Which of the following is a reason that organizations undertake knowledge management: 
A. They don't value an organizational culture of learning.
B. They know that new knowledge is only created outside the organization.
C. They want to ensure that organizational knowledge isn't wasted.
D. They must follow the laws and regulations of their industries.

22. C
They want to ensure that organizational knowledge isn't wasted. Organizations undertake knowledge management because they want to make sure that organizational knowledge is available for use, not wasted. New knowledge comes from both within and outside of an organization. Organizations that undertake knowledge management value an organizational culture of learning. There are no laws or regulations forcing organizations to manage knowledge. 
SOURCE: KM:001 Explain the nature of knowledge management
SOURCE: LAP-KM-001—Know Go (The Nature of Knowledge Management)

40. Knowledge management is important for business success, but it is often limited by __________ team members. 
A. specialist
B. collaborative
C. gossipy
D. unmotivated

40. D
Unmotivated. A common challenge with knowledge management is motivating people to share information and apply that shared knowledge consistently. Knowledge leaders need to foster communities of collaboration and cultures of growth to develop effective knowledge management systems. Collaborative team members will be more inclined to share knowledge. Team members with specialized knowledge are assets to a knowledge community. Gossipy team members might be unprofessional, but they aren't directly as challenging to knowledge management success as those who are unmotivated and unwilling to participate. 
SOURCE: KM:018 Apply knowledge management processes
SOURCE: Casey, M. (2018, June 21). 11 knowledge management challenges managers face. Retrieved
August 4, 2023, from https://dzone.com/articles/11-knowledge-management-challenges-managersface 

78. Which of the following is an example of technology supporting a business's knowledge management processes: 
A. Using location-targeted digital advertisements
B. Tracking customer information in a customer relationship management system
C. Sending digital coupons through a third-party advertising service
D. Monitoring interactions on a business social media account

78. B
Tracking customer information in a customer relationship management system. A customer relationship management system is technology that businesses use to keep track of customer information. It helps businesses contact customers and assist them as they interact with the business. Social media interactions, location-targeted digital advertisements, and digital coupons are forms of marketing communications, not knowledge management. 
SOURCE: KM:003 Explain the use of technology in knowledge management
SOURCE: Document360. (2019, July 5). The benefits of adopting knowledge management tools and
technologies in your business. Retrieved August 4, 2023, from https://document360.com/blog/benefits-of-knowledge-management 

88. Which of the following is an example of intellectual capital: 
A. Office computers
B. Sales revenue
C. A company's stocks
D. An employee's product knowledge

88. D
An employee's product knowledge. Intellectual capital includes the intangible assets of a business that give it value. Examples include employee knowledge and skills, relationships, intellectual property, systems, and more. An employee's knowledge of the product is valuable to a company. Sales revenue and a company's stocks are financial capital. Office computers are physical assets. 
SOURCE: KM:002 Discuss the role of ethics in knowledge management
SOURCE: LAP-KM-002—Know What's Right (Ethics in Knowledge Management)

9. How can an organization promote knowledge management? 
A. By limiting meetings and casual conversations
B. By rewarding individual achievement
C. By providing a company intranet
D. By offering company benefits and perks

9. C
By providing a company intranet. An organization can promote knowledge management by providing helpful tools such as a company intranet or other knowledge management technology. Organizations should also encourage regular meetings and conversations during which employees share their insights. Companies should reward collaboration and communication, rather than individual achievement. Offering company benefits and perks is not directly related to knowledge management. 
SOURCE: KM:002 Discuss the role of ethics in knowledge management
SOURCE: LAP-KM-002—Know What’s Right (Ethics in Knowledge Management)
2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 3 

42. Which of the following is the first stage of the knowledge management process: 
A. Deliver
B. Prioritize
C. Audit
D. Optimize

42. B
Prioritize. Knowledge management is the process of creating, identifying, collecting, organizing, sharing, and using knowledge and knowledge sources for the benefit of the organization or business. The knowledge management process can be split into six stages: Prioritize, audit, capture, curate, deliver, optimize. The first stage of the knowledge management process is to prioritize the knowledge. This is done by determining what customers are actually asking about and prioritizing that information using the 80-20 rule—80% of queries will be solved using 20% of your knowledge. 
SOURCE: KM:018 Apply knowledge management processes
SOURCE: eGain. (2023). What is a knowledge management process? Retrieved October 27, 2023, from
https://www.egain.com/what-is-knowledge-management-process 

45. Which of the following is a way in which technology facilitates knowledge management: 
A. It ensures knowledge is retained.
B. It complicates the storage of knowledge.
C. It makes knowledge easier to record.
D. It makes knowledge harder to access.

45. C
It makes knowledge easier to record. Knowledge management is the process of creating, identifying, collecting, organizing, sharing, and using knowledge and knowledge sources for the benefit of the organization or business. Technology facilitates knowledge management in organizations because it makes knowledge easier to record, access, and store. While knowledge management can go a long way toward helping professionals retain knowledge, it does not necessarily ensure knowledge will be retained. 
SOURCE: KM:003 Explain the use of technology in knowledge management
SOURCE: IBM. (n.d.). What is knowledge management? Retrieved October 27, 2023, from
https://www.ibm.com/topics/knowledge-management 

46. For information to qualify as a trade secret, the information 
A. cannot be sold or licensed.
B. doesn't need to be protected by a confidentiality agreement.
C. must be commercially valuable.
D. can be known by a large group of people.

46. C
Must be commercially valuable. Trade secrets are intellectual property rights or confidential information that can be sold or licensed. For information to qualify as a trade secret, the information must be commercially valuable and be known by only a limited group of persons, rather than a large group of people. In addition, the information must be subject to reasonable steps taken by the rightful holder of the information to keep it secret, including the use of confidentiality agreements. 
SOURCE: KM:004 Explain legal considerations for knowledge management
SOURCE: WIPO. (n.d.). Frequently asked questions: Trade secrets. Retrieved October 27, 2023, from
https://www.wipo.int/tradesecrets/en/tradesecrets_faqs.html 

57. On Charlie's last day with his company, his boss wants to meet with him to gain feedback and capture his knowledge about the company's database. This is an example of what type of interview? 
A. Expert
B. Personal
C. Phone
D. Exit

57. D
Exit. An exit interview refers to discussions with employees who are leaving that are designed to gain feedback for the business. In terms of knowledge management, exit interviews are used by companies as a way to capture and transfer knowledge. An expert interview is used in market research to obtain information on the market, consumers, products, and services. A personal interview is a data collection method in which a researcher sits down with a respondent one-on-one to ask questions and record the respondent's answers. A phone interview includes surveying individuals via phone to obtain research data. 
SOURCE: KM:005 Identify techniques that can be used to capture and transfer knowledge in an organization
SOURCE: Bamboo HR. (2023). Exit interview. Retrieved October 27, 2023, from
https://www.bamboohr.com/resources/hr-glossary/exit-interview 2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 14 

69. Which of the following statements best represents tacit knowledge: 
A. It can be readily captured in a document.
B. It can be stored in a database.
C. It can be easily communicated to others.
D. It can be gained through an experience.

69. D
It can be gained through an experience. Tacit knowledge is knowledge an individual possesses that is difficult to transfer to others either verbally or in writing. Tacit knowledge is gained through some sort of experience. Tacit knowledge is harder to grasp than explicit knowledge, which is knowledge that can be easily communicated to others or readily captured and stored in some type of document or database. 
SOURCE: KM:001 Explain the nature of knowledge management
SOURCE: LAP-KM-001—Know Go (The Nature of Knowledge Management)

79. Cool Clay Creations is trying to determine whether the company owns its knowledge and practices. This company is dealing with issues related to 
A. organizational culture.
B. intentionality.
C. intellectual property.
D. trust.

79. C
Intellectual property. Certain types of knowledge, such as published works, inventions, and brand names, are protected by law. These are referred to as intellectual property. When an organization is trying to determine whether it owns knowledge, it is dealing with intellectual property law. This situation is not necessarily related to trust, organizational culture, or intentionality. 
SOURCE: KM:002 Discuss the role of ethics in knowledge management
SOURCE: LAP-KM-002—Know What’s Right (Ethics in Knowledge Management)

89. A company is reviewing the knowledge it already possesses to identify where gaps exist. This describes which stage of the knowledge management process? 
A. Deliver
B. Audit
C. Capture
D. Optimize

89. B
Audit. Knowledge management is the process of creating, identifying, collecting, organizing, sharing, and using knowledge and knowledge sources for the benefit of the organization or business. A knowledge audit, the second stage of the knowledge management process, involves finding and assessing the knowledge you already possess and identifying gaps that exist. The capture stage involves both extracting useful information from a variety of sources and creating new information identified during the audit stage. The deliver stage involves delivering, or distributing, the knowledge. The optimize stage involves incorporating AI, machine learning, and analytics to process knowledge, offer solutions, and provide analysis to enable optimization of the system. 
SOURCE: KM:018 Apply knowledge management processes
SOURCE: eGain. (2023). What is a knowledge management process? Retrieved October 27, 2023, from
https://www.egain.com/what-is-knowledge-management-process 

9. Which of the following is an example of receiving information: 
A. Looking at a list of random addresses
B. Taking a language course
C. Learning to take someone's temperature
D. Reading a travel itinerary

9. D
Reading a travel itinerary. Reading a travel itinerary is an example of receiving information—facts and figures in useful form. A travel itinerary tells you where you are going, when you are going, and what you'll do when you get there. Taking a language course and learning to take someone's temperature are both examples of receiving knowledge. Looking at a list of random addresses is an example of receiving raw data; it might be used for a marketing research study. 
SOURCE: KM:001 Explain the nature of knowledge management
SOURCE: LAP-KM-001—Know Go (The Nature of Knowledge Management)
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 3 

11. Jillian is working on a knowledge management project. Her company wants to capture and understand how and why its managers use a certain collaboration software at work. To help her retrieve this information, Jillian carefully observes managers going about their daily routines using the software in question. She also asks the managers various questions about the software, such as "How does this tool make your life easier?" Jillian is attempting to retrieve __________ knowledge. 
A. embedded
B. tacit
C. explicit
D. understood

11. A
Embedded. Embedded knowledge is information that is "trapped" within organizational routines, processes, and protocols. This type of knowledge is not clearly communicated; rather, it is hidden within employees' daily work routines. Tacit knowledge is knowledge that is intuitive—it is often hard to define and experience-based. Tacit knowledge is deeply personal and is often the hardest type of knowledge to capture. Explicit knowledge is widely available information that is easy to access and understand. An example of a source of explicit knowledge would be a company training manual. "Understood knowledge" is not generally a term used to describe one of the three main types of knowledge. 
SOURCE: KM:018 Apply knowledge management processes
SOURCE: Knowledge Management Tools. (2018). The different types of knowledge. Retrieved September 21,
2023, from https://www.knowledge-management-tools.net/different-types-of-knowledge.html 

20. A research firm develops a new computer software algorithm that significantly increases data analysis speed and accuracy. How can the company ensure that the algorithm qualifies for trade secret protection? 
A. Register it as a trade secret
B. Provide it on the market as an open-source product
C. Require employees to sign nondisclosure agreements
D. Register it as a patent

20. C
Require employees to sign nondisclosure agreements. Nondisclosure agreements are legally binding contracts that prevent employees from sharing company trade secrets. A trade secret is protected under laws that prevent unfair competition, but it is not formally registered like a trademark or patent. In order for information to qualify as a trade secret and receive protection under the law, it must possess commercial value, and the company must take steps to protect the information. A company can protect trade secrets by requiring employees to sign confidentiality agreements or nondisclosure agreements which make it unlawful to share trade secrets with the public, other employers, or competitors. When information is shared as an open-source product, it is widely available to the public and no longer qualifies as a trade secret. 
SOURCE: KM:004 Explain legal considerations for knowledge management
SOURCE: Johnson, K., & Madara, J. (2023, March 21). Proprietary, confidential info, trade secrets, knowhow—differences for business success. Retrieved September 21, 2023, from
https://www.foxrothschild.com/publications/proprietary-confidential-info-trade-secrets-know-howdifferences-for-business-success BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 6 

22. The FMT Company wants to implement a software program to capture and communicate tacit knowledge. Which of the following software applications is best suited to fulfill the company's needs: 
A. Groupware
B. Presentation
C. Spreadsheet
D. Recovery

22. A
Groupware. Groupware or collaborative computer software allows many employees to access and share information, including tacit knowledge. Some applications, such as email and instant messaging, allow employees to instantly transmit messages to coworkers who are in remote locations. The primary use of spreadsheet applications is to show numerical information in a logical format. Businesspeople use presentation software to develop visual aids that support their business presentations. Businesses use recovery applications to back up their computer data. The backed up data can be used if the computer systems break or fail. 
SOURCE: KM:003 Explain the use of technology in knowledge management
SOURCE: UsabilityFirst. (2002-2015). Introduction to collaborative software. Retrieved September 21, 2023,
from http://www.usabilityfirst.com/about-usability/web-application-design/collaborative-softwaregroupware/introduction-to-collaborative-software/ 

49. How can an organization promote knowledge management from the top down? 
A. Providing the right technology
B. Valuing competitiveness
C. Rewarding individual achievement
D. Encouraging a quiet workplace

49. A
Providing the right technology. An organization can promote knowledge management by providing helpful tools such as a company intranet or other knowledge management technology. Rewarding individual achievement can discourage knowledge management; instead, top-level management should recognize collaboration and teamwork. Instead of encouraging a quiet workplace, organizations should encourage communication and regular meetings. Finally, valuing competitiveness can decrease knowledge management because employees might look out for their own self-interest rather than share knowledge with one another. 
SOURCE: KM:002 Discuss the role of ethics in knowledge management
SOURCE: LAP-KM-002—Know What's Right (Ethics in Knowledge Management)

63. When a company has fostered a negative work culture, employees tend to distrust their managers and coworkers and are less likely to 
A. accept jobs offers from other employers.
B. share their work-related tacit knowledge.
C. use personal leave time.
D. complete their assignments on time.

63. B
Share their work-related tacit knowledge. Tacit knowledge is expertise that is often difficult to explain or quantify. Sharing tacit knowledge with coworkers can help the company improve its performance, develop innovative processes, and achieve a competitive advantage. Employees are more likely to share knowledge when management encourages collaboration. However, if a company has a negative work culture, employees tend to be on guard and may be fearful about losing their jobs. Under these circumstances, employees are more likely to keep helpful information to themselves. Companies with negative work cultures tend to have higher employee turnover rates. This happens because dissatisfied employees are more likely to use their personal leave time to look for and accept jobs with other companies. The ability to complete assignments on time depends on a variety of factors including the interdependence of work activities, workload, etc. 
SOURCE: KM:002 Discuss the role of ethics in knowledge management
SOURCE: Chen, J. (2021, February 16). Intellectual capital. Retrieved September 21, 2023, from
https://www.investopedia.com/terms/i/intellectual_capital.asp BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 16 

88. Which of the following is an action that a business can take to capture tacit knowledge from its employees: 
A. Obtaining statistical reports from the internet
B. Conducting personal interviews
C. Developing a competitive analysis
D. Holding customer focus groups

88. B
Conducting personal interviews. Tacit knowledge is knowledge consisting of personal opinions, experiences, expertise, or understanding that is not easily articulated, stored, or quantified. By conducting personal interviews with employees, management might be able to obtain knowledge from employees about their on-thejob experiences—experiences that can ultimately affect the success of the business. Listening to employees' experiences might reveal problems and issues that they encounter while doing their jobs. Holding customer focus groups, developing a competitive analysis, and obtaining statistical reports from the internet will not capture employees' tacit knowledge. 
SOURCE: KM:005 Identify techniques that can be used to capture and transfer knowledge in an organization
SOURCE: Oragui, D. (2023, April 19). Tacit knowledge: Definitions, examples, and importance. Retrieved
September 21, 2023, from https://helpjuice.com/blog/tacit-knowledge 

90. The codification process helps transform __________ knowledge into __________ knowledge. 
A. internal; tacit
B. tacit; explicit
C. tacit; implicit
D. explicit; internal

90. B
Tacit; explicit. The knowledge codification process helps transform tacit (or implicit) knowledge into explicit (or formalized) knowledge. Tacit knowledge is gained through personal experience. The codification process transforms tacit knowledge into accessible and shareable explicit knowledge. Internal knowledge is not a widely recognized term. 
SOURCE: KM:005 Identify techniques that can be used to capture and transfer knowledge in an organization
SOURCE: LinkedIn. (2023, April 5). What are the best practices and principles for knowledge codification and
categorization? Retrieved November 14, 2023, from https://www.linkedin.com/advice/0/what-bestpractices-principles-knowledge-codification 2024 HS ICDC HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 22 

32. Which of the following techniques involves capturing knowledge in a table by grouping similar variables, concepts, or properties: 
A. Process model
B. Constrained task
C. Repertory grid
D. Concept map

32. C
Repertory grid. A repertory grid captures and rates knowledge in a table. Knowledge managers use the table to categorize similar or related variables, concepts, or properties. A concept map organizes concepts and their relationships in a graphic format. A process model is used to capture all of the inputs and outputs of an action, procedure, or process in sequential stages. The constrained task approach involves the use of questionnaires and structured interviews to capture the most important or “key” knowledge from experts. 
SOURCE: KM:005 Identify techniques that can be used to capture and transfer knowledge in an organization
SOURCE: Neimeyer, R.A. (2016). Repertory grid methods. Retrieved September 26, 2023, from
https://kellysociety.org/repgrids.html 

