13. What is a guideline to follow when completing a loan application? 
A. Use overly large letters to make the application easy to read.
B. Use all uppercase letters when completing online applications.
C. Present yourself in a positive light but be honest.
D. Leave questions blank when they don't apply to you.

13. C
Present yourself in a positive light but be honest. Your loan request will be denied if the lender finds out that you provided false information on the application; therefore, honesty is the best policy when applying for loans. You can present yourself positively by writing notes or comments to clarify questionable points on the application. Online applications should be completed with upper- and lowercase letters. All questions should be answered. If a question does not apply to you, write N/A on the form. Use of overly large letters will cramp the information into the spaces provided, thereby making it difficult to read the completed application. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 8
SOURCE: Loose, T. (2023, June 19). 10 reasons my mortgage loan was rejected. Retrieved August 30, 2023,
from https://www.gobankingrates.com/loans/mortgage/why-mortgage-was-denied/ 

14. Eric goes to the bank for a loan for his small business. He has had three businesses in 10 years—the first two failed. Joan also goes to the bank for a loan for her small business, which has been open for 10 years and has had steady success. The banker would probably decide to charge __________ a __________ interest rate. 
A. Joan; higher
B. Eric; higher
C. both; high
D. both; low

14. B
Eric; higher. Eric has a worse record than Joan in terms of success in business, so he would receive a higher rate on his loan because he is a riskier investment for the bank. Joan is a more solid investment, so she would receive a lower interest rate. The bank would not charge Joan a high interest rate because she is a solid investment. The bank would also not charge Eric a low interest rate because of the risk associated with the repayment of his loan. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 8
SOURCE: Waugh, E. (2022, October 3). What factors do lenders consider when determining my interest
rate? Retrieved August 29, 2023, from https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-factorsdo-lenders-consider-when-determining-my-interestrate/#:~:text=Lenders%20consider%20your%20credit%20score, terms%20play%20a%20role%20too PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 4 

15. What is the key reason that credit is used so widely by consumers and businesses? 
A. Credit allows consumers to stretch their spending beyond the actual limits of income.
B. Credit allows consumers and businesses to purchase major products without paying for them.
C. Credit allows consumers and businesses to purchase goods and services when they are needed.
D. Credit allows new employees and new businesses to purchase items before income levels out.

15. C
Credit allows consumers and businesses to purchase goods and services when they are needed. Credit is the arrangement by which businesses or individuals can purchase now and pay later. Credit enables people to purchase when products are needed and pay for them over a period of time, which is the key reason that credit is used. Credit is not a factor in leveling out income. Ultimately, income must pay for the credit purchases and cannot be stretched. Credit must be repaid. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 8
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance)

21. Which of the following items are most likely to impact the cost of using credit: 
A. Paycheck and interest rate
B. Loan length and lender
C. Interest rate and loan length
D. Lender and paycheck

21. C
Interest rate and loan length. Interest is the fee the lender charges the borrower for the use of the money, and the interest rate is the percentage figure used in calculating interest charges. The amount of interest is calculated by multiplying the amount of money being borrowed (the principal) times the interest rate times the length of time for which the loan is made. The length of time borrowers use to pay off loans plays an important role in determining the costs of credit. The faster a loan is repaid, the less interest is charged. Paychecks and lenders do not typically impact the cost of using credit. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 8
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance)

32. Philip needs a car to drive to his new job, but he does not have enough cash in his savings account to cover the cost yet. Philip's situation shows why 
A. credit is a marketing-information tool.
B. saving money is not an effective practice.
C. it is a good idea to build a strong credit rating.
D. credit is often necessary to make large purchases.

32. D
Credit is often necessary to make large purchases. For most people, it is difficult to pay cash for large, expensive items, especially when just starting a new job, as in Philip's case. Paying with credit can help Philip buy the car he needs. It is a good idea to build a good credit rating, but Philip's situation is not specifically an example of this. Philip's situation is not an example of how saving money is not an effective practice. It is also not an example of how credit is a marketing-information tool. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 8
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance)
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 8 

37. Rossi is buying a new computer for $363 with his credit card. The credit card has a rate of 24% and uses an adjusted balance method to calculate interest. The credit card company begins charging interest on Rossi's purchase during the first billing period. If Rossi makes a payment of $200 for the first billing period and pays the remaining amount for the second billing period, how much total interest will Rossi pay? 
A. $12.31
B. $14.52
C. $10.67
D. $7.26

37. C
$10.67. Credit card companies using the adjusted balance method to charge interest only charge it on the principal balance that remains each month. To calculate how much total interest Rossi will pay during the initial two billing periods, first calculate the monthly interest rate by dividing the APR by the number of months in a year (24% [or 0.24] / 12 = 0.02). Then, multiply the monthly interest rate by the principal amount to determine the amount of interest charged for the first month (0.02 X $363 = $7.26). For the following month, you first need to determine the new principal amount. Subtract the interest amount charged during the initial month from last month's repayment to determine the payment amount applied to the principal ($200 − $7.26 = $192.74). Next, subtract the payment amount applied to the principal amount at the end of the first month from the original balance to determine the new principal amount to be charged interest for the second month ($363 − $192.74 = $170.26). Calculate the interest charged for the second month (0.02 X $170.26 = $3.41). Add together the interest paid each month to determine the total interest Rossi will pay during the first two billing periods ($7.26 + $3.41 = $10.67). 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 8
SOURCE: Hightower, S.S. (2023, June 6). How does credit card interest work? Retrieved August 30, 2023,
from https://www.creditkarma.com/credit-cards/i/how-does-credit-card-interest-work/ 

53. To pay his student loans, Jerian elects a plan where he begins with low monthly payments that increase yearly. This is an example of a(n) __________ plan. 
A. standard repayment
B. income-driven
C. consolidation
D. graduated repayment

53. D
Graduated repayment. A graduated repayment plan is typically a shorter-term plan where monthly payments begin smaller but gradually increase on an annual or biannual basis. A standard repayment plan involves a fixed fee over a set period of time until the loan is paid off. Jerian’s plan includes a payment that increases yearly; therefore, it is not a fixed fee. An income-driven plan is a plan that is based on a post-graduate’s income. This typically involves paying a certain percentage of one’s income. There is no indication Jerian is paying a specific percentage of his income. A consolidation plan is a repayment plan that combines multiple federal loans into one, averaging the interest rates from the different loans. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 8
SOURCE: Chafin, J.A. (2022, September 29). What is a graduated repayment plan? Retrieved August 30,
2023, from https://www.lendingtree.com/student/graduated-repayment-plan/ PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 13 

55. On January 3, Anna mailed her credit card payment, which was due on January 5. The credit card issuer received the payment on January 7. What most likely appeared on Anna's credit card statement the following month? 
A. Application charge
B. Processing charge
C. Over-limit fee
D. Late fee

55. D
Late fee. Credit card issuers often charge late fees for payments that do not arrive on time. Some credit card issuers charge application fees, which involves billing a customer for applying for credit. Processing fees are charges to complete certain activities. Over-limit fees are charges applied for credit transactions that go over or exceed the cardholder's credit limit. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 8
SOURCE: Hipp, D. (2023, May 22). What is a late fee? Retrieved August 30, 2023, from
https://www.creditkarma.com/advice/i/what-is-a-latefee#:~:text=A%20late%20fee%20is%20what,on%20your%20next%20billing%20statement 

57. Transaction fees and interest rates are important considerations when you are 
A. assessing a loan application.
B. preparing your bank statements.
C. selecting a credit card provider.
D. establishing your credit rating.

57. C
Selecting a credit card provider. Comparison shopping will help you determine which credit card providers offer the lowest interest rates and have minimal transaction fees. Doing some research before applying for and accepting the terms of a credit card can help you save money on credit. Credit bureaus collect your credit history to calculate your credit rating (score). Banks prepare your bank statements, and lending institutions assess the loan applications that applicants complete. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 8
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: Mapping Your Future, Inc. (2023). Use your credit cards wisely. Retrieved August 30, 2023, from
https://mappingyourfuture.org/money/creditcards.cfm 

58. What do companies try to accomplish when extending credit to customers? 
A. Reduce expenses
B. Reduce assets
C. Increase sales
D. Increase liabilities

58. C
Increase sales. Credit encourages customers to buy more freely, which helps the business extending credit to increase its sales. Companies also offer credit as a way of gaining new business and ultimately increasing profits. Offering credit will increase expenses, but additional sales from credit transactions may be worth this additional cost. Liabilities and assets are not usually affected by the extension of credit. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 8
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance)
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 14 

60. Using a credit card is 
A. like getting a free loan if you pay the balance each month.
B. a good way to pay for impulse purchases.
C. a privilege reserved for working adults.
D. an inexpensive way to borrow money for an extended period.

60. A
Like getting a free loan if you pay the balance each month. When you pay the balance on a credit card each month, you are getting what amounts to a free loan. A credit card is not a good way to pay for impulse purchases—impulse purchases are usually a bad idea no matter how you pay for them. Credit cards are not an inexpensive way to borrow money for an extended period. Nowadays, easy access to credit cards is a growing problem. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 8
SOURCE: U.S. Bank. (2023). How credit cards work. Retrieved August 30, 2023, from
https://www.usbank.com/credit-cards/how-credit-cards-work.html 

69. Which of the following factors might affect a customer's application for credit: 
A. Height
B. Income
C. Race
D. Gender

69. B
Income. Level of income might affect a customer's application for credit. Income is important because it indicates an ability to repay a loan. To consider an applicant's gender, race, or height would be discriminatory and irrelevant. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 8
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance)

93. Sheila pays the minimum payment shown on her credit card bill each month. For the remaining amount on the bill, she will be charged a(n) 
A. late fee.
B. annual fee.
C. overdraft fee.
D. annual percentage rate.

93. D
Annual percentage rate. The annual percentage rate (APR) is the interest paid on the portion of the bill Sheila does not pay each month. An annual fee is a once-a-year payment made to the credit card company that permits the person to use the company's credit card. A late fee is issued when a person does not submit any payment at all by the monthly due date. An overdraft fee is charged by a bank when a customer writes a check for more money than is in their checking account. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 8
SOURCE: Fernando, J. (2023, February 9). Annual percentage rate (APR): What it means and how it works.
Retrieved August 30, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/a/apr.asp 

96. When applying for credit, lenders will often assess __________, or the reputation of the borrower. 
A. capital
B. collateral
C. character
D. capacity

96. C
Character. In the loan realm, character refers to the reputation of the borrower. Banks and other lenders want to make sure that the borrower will be able to repay the debt. To evaluate the borrower's character, lenders might evaluate credit history. Collateral, capacity, and capital are other categories that lenders assess during the credit application process, but they do not involve the reputation of the borrower. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 8
SOURCE: Segal, T. (2023, March 17). 5 Cs of credit: What they are, how they're used, and which is most
important. Retrieved August 30, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/f/five-c-credit.asp 

97. Failing to pay bills on time may result in growing __________, which makes it harder to borrow money. 
A. credit
B. debt
C. discounts
D. assets

97. B
Debt. Debt is the money owed by a business or individual to others. If someone does not pay money back to the person they borrowed from, they are indebted to that person. This debt could appear on a credit report and cause potential borrowing problems. A discount is a deduction from the price of goods. Credit is the arrangement by which businesses or individuals can purchase now and pay later. Assets are anything of value that a business or individual owns. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 8
SOURCE: Irby, L. (2022, March 18). 12 possible reasons your credit card application was denied. Retrieved
August 30, 2023, from https://www.thebalance.com/denied-credit-card-application-960247 PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 23 

98. Tia wants to purchase a new wardrobe using a credit card with a 0% introductory interest rate. How can she determine how much she can afford to charge to the credit card? 
A. Determine how much she has in her savings account
B. Calculate how much she can afford to pay on the card each month
C. Find out what her credit limit is from the credit card company
D. Find out how much is in her emergency fund

98. B
Calculate how much she can afford to pay on the card each month. When making the decision whether or not to use a credit card, it's important to determine how a credit card payment would fit into your personal budget so you can pay the debt in a responsible manner. It's not advisable to use all the credit offered by a credit card company, because large balances are difficult to pay, and a high debt-to-credit ratio can result in a poor credit score. Experts do not recommend using savings and emergency funds to pay credit card expenses. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 8
SOURCE: Gravier, E. (2023, May 25). The 5 types of expenses experts say you should never charge on a
credit card. Retrieved August 30, 2023, from https://www.cnbc.com/select/expenses-never-put-oncredit-card/ 

3. Student loan deferment allows you to stop making payments on your loan for 
A. up to 5 years.
B. 10 months.
C. up to 3 years.
D. 6 months.

3. C
Up to 3 years. A student loan deferment allows you to stop making payments on your student loans for up to 3 years. Student loan deferment does not cancel the loan. Rather, it delays payment on the loan until the deferment period is over. You must apply and qualify for deferment unless you are enrolled in school at least part time. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Probasco, J. (2023, December 12). Student loan deferment: What it is, who qualifies, and how to get
it. Retrieved February 5, 2024, from https://www.investopedia.com/what-is-student-loan-deferment4771251 

4. Leonard missed a payment on his personal loan two days ago, and he doesn't expect to have the money to pay it off until he receives his next paycheck in a week. What consequence is Leonard most likely to face in this situation? 
A. His lender will "charge off" his account.
B. He will default on his loan.
C. His account will be considered delinquent.
D. He'll be charged a late fee by his lender.

4. D
He'll be charged a late fee by his lender. Leonard will most likely be charged a late fee by his lender because he missed his payment. However, lenders don't report missed personal loan payments to credit bureaus until one billing cycle, or typically 30 days, has passed. If Leonard doesn't make his payment at least 30 days past due, his account would be considered delinquent. If Leonard goes anywhere from 90 to 120 days without making a payment, he will default on his loan, meaning he failed to repay the loan according to the terms of his loan agreement. If Leonard goes 120 days or more without making a payment, the lender will typically "charge off" his account, meaning that the lender gave up trying to collect money from him and likely sold his debt to a thirdparty collection agency. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Axelton, K. (2022, August 10). What happens if you don't pay back a personal loan? Retrieved
February 5, 2024, from https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-happens-if-you-dont-payback-personal-loan 2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 2 

6. Which of the following is a reason for a soft credit inquiry: 
A. Employment background check
B. Request for a credit limit increase
C. Credit card application
D. Car loan application

6. A
Employment background check. A soft credit inquiry typically occurs when a person or company checks your credit during a background check. This can happen if you're hired by a company or if a credit card issuer checks your credit without your permission to see if you qualify for certain offers. A car loan application, a credit card application, and a request for a credit limit increase are reasons for a hard credit inquiry. A hard credit inquiry typically occurs when a financial institution (such as a lender or credit card issuer) checks your credit when making a lending decision. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Devaney, T. (2023, April 4). Hard credit inquiry vs. soft credit inquiry: What they are and why they
matter. Retrieved February 5, 2024, from https://www.creditkarma.com/advice/i/hard-credit-inquiriesand-soft-credit-inquiries 

13. Which of the following is a way to increase your credit score: 
A. Increase your credit utilization
B. Apply for new accounts more often
C. Pay down revolving account balances
D. Close your oldest accounts

13. C
Pay down revolving account balances. One way to increase your credit score is to pay down revolving account balances. A high balance on revolving credit accounts (such as credit card accounts) can lead to a high credit utilization rate, which hurts your credit score. Maintaining a low balance on a revolving credit account relative to their credit limits can improve your credit score. Decreasing your credit utilization, not increasing it, will help your score. Another way to improve your credit score is to limit how often you apply for new accounts. The more you apply for new credit accounts, the more likely a hard inquiry is done on your account, which can lower your credit score. The length of time you've had credit is another factor that can impact your credit score. The longer you've had credit, the better. Thus, to increase your credit score, you should not close your oldest accounts unless there is a compelling reason to do so. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Experian. (2024). How to improve your credit score. Retrieved February 5, 2024,
from https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/improving-credit/improve-creditscore 

14. Which of the following is typically a benefit of attending a community college: 
A. It focuses on delivering a basic education.
B. It avoids overhead costs like meal plans and housing.
C. It has larger class sizes than a university.
D. It has a more competitive application process.

14. B
It avoids overhead costs like meal plans and housing. One of the biggest benefits of a community college is that it is cheaper than a traditional college or university. Depending on the college or university, the cost difference between community college and a traditional four-year institution can be significant. By attending community college, students also typically skip out on overhead costs like meal plans and housing. Other benefits of community college are that it has an easier application process (not a more competitive one), smaller class sizes than a university, transferable credits, and flexible schedules. A con of community college is that the focus is on delivering a basic education, career certificates, and associate degrees. Although some community colleges offer four-year bachelor's degrees, many students that want to earn a bachelor's degree need to attend a four-year university after completing their program at community college. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Carignan, N. (2023, September 21). Community college vs. university: Pros and cons. Retrieved
February 5, 2024, from https://mwcc.edu/blog/community-college-vs-university 

23. Lenders charge higher interest rates on unsecured loans than on secured loans because unsecured loans 
A. are based on the borrower's creditworthiness.
B. have lower monthly payments than secured loans.
C. have collateral backing.
D. pose less risk to the lender.

23. A
Are based on the borrower's creditworthiness. An unsecured loan is an amount of money borrowed by an individual or a business simply by signing a promissory note promising to repay the loan. Because of this, unsecured loans are based on the borrower's creditworthiness and promise to repay, making it a bigger risk to the lender than secured loans. A secured loan is a type of loan in which the borrower pledges to the lender some valuable possession as collateral, or security, to guarantee that the loan will be repaid. Secured loans have collateral backing, whereas unsecured loans do not. Because interest rates are typically lower on secured loans, the monthly payments can be slightly lower than those of unsecured loans. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Majaski, C. (2023, December 14). Secured debt vs. unsecured debt: What's the difference?
Retrieved February 5, 2024, from https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/110614/whatdifference-between-secured-and-unsecured-debts.asp 

29. Which of the following best describes a private student loan: 
A. It is funded by the federal government.
B. It typically requires payments while still in school.
C. It doesn't require payment until after graduation.
D. It can be consolidated into a Direct Consolidation Loan.

29. B
It typically requires payments while still in school. A private student loan is a nonfederal loan made by a lender, such as a bank, credit union, school, or state agency. A federal student loan is a loan that is funded by the federal government. Where private loans typically require payments while the student is still in school, federal student loans aren't due until after graduation. Federal student loans can be consolidated into a Direct Consolidation Loan, whereas private student loans cannot. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Federal Student Aid. (n.d.). Federal versus private loans. Retrieved February 5, 2024,
from https://studentaid.gov/understand-aid/types/loans/federal-vs-private 2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 8 

30. Even though Neil’s paycheck came through today, it isn’t enough to pay off both his credit card debt and his student loan. To be fiscally responsible and avoid paying as much interest as possible, should Neil pay off his credit card debt or make a student loan payment? 
A. His student loan, because it'll strengthen his credit score more than paying the credit card will.
B. His credit card, because credit cards usually have higher interest rates than student loans.
C. His credit card, because student loans typically don't have interest rates.
D. His student loan, because student loans commonly have higher interest rates than credit cards.

30. B
His credit card, because credit cards usually have higher interest rates than student loans. In this scenario, Neil should pay off his credit card debt first because interest rates on credit cards are higher than on loans. Although student loans typically have interest rates, they are not as high as the interest rates for credit cards. If Neil prioritizes paying off his credit card, he'll save money on interest and potentially improve his credit score. Paying down credit card debt decreases credit utilization, which is one of the biggest contributing factors to credit scores. Although paying loans on time will also strengthen Neil's credit, it won't strengthen it as much as paying down his credit card debt. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: McGurran, B. (2023, July 7). Should I pay off credit card or loan debt first? Retrieved February 5,
2024, from https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/should-i-pay-off-credit-card-or-loan-debtfirst 

36. The first step of applying for student loans is to 
A. compare financial aid offers.
B. complete the FAFSA.
C. consider private loans.
D. choose your school.

36. B
Complete the FAFSA. The first step in applying for student loans is to complete the FAFSA, or the government's Free Application for Federal Student Aid. Once the FAFSA is complete, the financial aid offices at colleges you've applied to will use the information from your FAFSA to determine how much aid to make available to you. This is done by subtracting your estimated family contribution from the school's cost of attendance (which includes tuition, room and board, etc.). Once schools offer you their aid packages, it is important to compare them. If you need to borrow more money than federal student loans can provide, then you will consider private loans from a bank, credit union, or another financial institution. Once you do all of this, then the final step is to choose your school. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Epstein, L. (2023, September 5). How to apply for student loans. Retrieved February 5, 2024,
from https://www.investopedia.com/articles/personal-finance/091515/beginners-guide-studentloans.asp 

40. Subsidized loans are different than unsubsidized loans because unsubsidized loans 
A. do not require students to demonstrate financial need.
B. typically offer lower loan limits than subsidized loans.
C. are only available to undergraduate students with financial need.
D. do not accrue interest until the student leaves school.

40. A
Do not require students to demonstrate financial need. Federal direct loans can be subsidized or unsubsidized. While both types of loans offer flexible repayment options, the option to consolidate, low interest rates, and forbearance and deferment options, there are some key differences between the two. Namely, subsidized loans are based on the borrower's financial needs, whereas unsubsidized loans do not require students to demonstrate financial need. Subsidized loans are only available to undergraduate students with financial need, while unsubsidized loans are available to both undergraduate and graduate students. With subsidized loans, interest doesn't accrue until the student leaves school. Interest accrues from the time of disbursement with unsubsidized loans. Subsidized loans typically offer lower loan limits than unsubsidized loans. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Lake, R. (2023, September 2). Subsidized vs. unsubsidized student loans: Which is best? Retrieved
February 5, 2024, from https://www.investopedia.com/personal-finance/federal-direct-loanssubsidized-vs-unsubsidized 

65. Which of the following is a type of collateral typically required for a mortgage loan: 
A. Car
B. Jewelry
C. Retirement accounts
D. House

65. D
House. A mortgage loan is an agreement between the borrower and a lender used to purchase or maintain a home, plot of land, or other types of real estate. If the borrower fails to repay the money they borrow plus interest, the lender has the right to take the property away from the borrower. Because of this, the property or home itself serves as collateral for a mortgage loan. Although a car and jewelry can serve as forms of collateral, they are not typically required for a mortgage loan. Retirement accounts are not usually accepted as collateral. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Kagan, J. (2023, April 28). Collateral definition, types, & examples. Retrieved February 5, 2024, from
https://www.investopedia.com/terms/c/collateral.asp 

66. Which of the following statements about completing the FAFSA is true: 
A. It requires a small fee to complete.
B. It typically only applies to low-income households.
C. It needs to be completed once for a four-year degree.
D. It is a requirement to receive federal financial aid.

66. D
It is a requirement to receive federal financial aid. The FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid) is the form that one must complete to receive any financial aid from the federal government to help pay for college. Simply put, if a student wants to receive federal financial aid, they (often with the assistance of a parent or guardian) need fill out the FAFSA. The FAFSA needs to be completed before each academic year, not just once for a four-year degree. The FAFSA is free to complete. Anyone planning on going to college, no matter their financial situation, should fill out the FAFSA. A household does not need to be a low-income household to qualify for financial aid; any household could be eligible for aid. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: College Board. (2019, February 15). What is the FAFSA? Retrieved February 5, 2024, from
https://blog.collegeboard.org/what-is-the-fafsa 

67. Which of the following factors can impact the interest rate for a loan: 
A. Marital status
B. Credit score
C. Political affiliation
D. Medical history

67. B
Credit score. An interest rate is the amount a lender charges a borrower for use of the money. Interest rates are expressed as a percentage of the principal loan amount. There are many factors that can impact the interest rate for a loan, including the borrower's credit score, income, debt-to-income ratio, and repayment history, as well as the loan type, loan amount, and loan term. The borrower's marital status, political affiliation, and medical history are not factors that can impact the interest rate for a loan. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Shea, N. (2017, September 29). Seven factors that determine your mortgage interest rate. Retrieved
February 2, 2024, from https://www.consumerfinance.gov/about-us/blog/7-factors-determine-yourmortgage-interest-rate 2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 17 

70. Which of the following is true of secured loans: 
A. They are finalized when the borrower signs a promissory note.
B. The borrower pledges some form of collateral to the lender.
C. They are made for shorter periods of time than unsecured loans.
D. They are made only for those with excellent credit ratings.

70. B
The borrower pledges some form of collateral to the lender. A secured loan is a type of loan in which the borrower pledges to the lender some valuable possession as collateral, or security, to guarantee that the loan will be repaid. If the borrower does not repay the loan, the item used as collateral will then belong to the lender. An unsecured loan is an amount of money borrowed by an individual or a business simply by signing a promissory note promising to repay the loan. Unsecured loans are usually made for shorter periods of time than secured loans and only to individuals or businesses with excellent credit ratings. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance)

79. Rhea excelled in high school as both a student and a sprinter for the track and field team. As a result, she received financial aid from her college of choice that does not need to be paid back. What type of financial aid did Rhea receive? 
A. Work-study
B. Loan
C. Scholarship
D. Grant

79. C
Scholarship. A scholarship is a type of financial aid that does not need to be paid back, is merit-based, and is awarded to students based on academic achievements, extracurriculars, field of study, etc. Because Rhea does not have to pay the financial aid back, and because she received it based on her academic and track and field accomplishments, she received a scholarship. A grant is a type of financial aid that does not need to be paid back and that is given based on financial need. Work-study is a way for students to earn money to pay for college while working part-time jobs. There is no indication that Rhea received her financial aid based on financial need or that she received a work-study. Loans need to be repaid with interest. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Drexel University School of Education. (n.d.). Grants, scholarships, & loans: What's the difference?
Retrieved February 5, 2024, from https://drexel.edu/soe/admissions/financial-aid/difference-betweenstudent-grants-vs-loans 

85. Brianne received financial aid for college based solely on her family's financial need. In addition, her family does not need to repay the financial aid. What type of financial aid did Brianne receive? 
A. Loan
B. Scholarship
C. Work-study
D. Grant

85. D
Grant. A grant is a type of financial aid that does not need to be paid back and that is given based on financial need. A scholarship also does not need to be paid back, but is merit-based and awarded to students based on academic achievements, extracurriculars, field of study, etc. Because Brianne does not need to repay the financial aid and it was based solely on her family’s financial need, she received a grant. Loans need to be repaid with interest. Work-study is a way for students to earn money to pay for college while working part-time jobs. There is no indication that Brianne received a work-study. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Drexel University School of Education. (n.d.). Grants, scholarships, & loans: What's the difference?
Retrieved February 5, 2024, from https://drexel.edu/soe/admissions/financial-aid/difference-betweenstudent-grants-vs-loans 2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 21 

87. What is the impact of making a large down payment on a house? 
A. It increases the market value of the house.
B. It increases the amount the buyer should borrow.
C. It decreases the interest paid over the long term.
D. It decreases the number of payments per year.

87. C
It decreases the interest paid over the long term. A down payment is a sum of money a buyer pays upfront in a large financial transaction, such as a house or a car. A high down payment has several benefits, as it decreases monthly payment amounts as well as the amount of interest the buyer will pay over the life of the loan. A large down payment also reduces the amount the buyer owes the lender, meaning the buyer will need to borrow less. A large down payment does not necessarily increase the value of the house. While a large down payment will decrease the amount owed monthly, it will not decrease the number of payments required per year. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2023, May 21). Down payment: What it is and how much is required. Retrieved
February 5, 2024, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/d/down_payment.asp 

89. A fixed-rate mortgage is different than an adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM) in that fixed-rate mortgages 
A. have a set rate of interest that does not change.
B. are typically much cheaper than ARMs.
C. have rates that can increase or decrease over time.
D. are typically more complicated than ARMs.

89. A
Have a set rate of interest that does not change. A fixed-rate mortgage has an interest rate that is set when you take out the loan and will not change throughout the course of the loan. An adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM) has an interest rate that can increase or decrease over time in correlation with broader interest rate trends. ARMs are typically more complicated than fixed-rate mortgages, not vice versa. ARMs are typically much cheaper than fixed-rate mortgages, especially in the first three to seven years. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: McWhinney, J. (2023, July 24). Fixed vs. adjustable-rate mortgage: What's the difference? Retrieved
February 5, 2024, from https://www.investopedia.com/mortgage/mortgage-rates/fixed-versusadjustable-rate 2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 22 

95. Which of the following best describes a debt relief company: 
A. It is a for-profit credit counseling agency.
B. It offers more personalized financial advice.
C. It is mission-driven rather than profit-driven.
D. It typically offers free or low-cost services.

95. A
It is a for-profit credit counseling agency. A debt relief company is an example of a for-profit credit counseling agency. The primary objective of for-profit credit counseling agencies is to generate revenue and earn profits, as they are driven by financial success (similar to other commercial enterprises). Nonprofit credit counseling agencies typically offer free or low-cost services and operate under specific guidelines set by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Nonprofit credit counseling agencies are mission-driven rather than profit-driven. Debt relief companies often use a generalized approach to settling debt, with little focus on their clients' overall financial health. Nonprofit debt relief agencies offer more personalized financial advice, as they help their clients create a plan to repay their debt and establish better habits. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Mangis, L. (2023, July 14). The main differences between for-profit and non-profit credit counseling.
Retrieved February 5, 2024, from https://www.advantageccs.org/blog/the-main-differences-betweenfor-profit-and-non-profit-credit-counseling 

98. What are the primary organizations that maintain and provide consumer credit reports? 
A. TurboTax, E-Trade, and Experian
B. TurboTax, TransUnion, and Oracle
C. Equifax, TransUnion, and Experian
D. Equifax, E-Trade, and Oracle

98. C
Equifax, TransUnion, and Experian. The primary organizations that maintain and provide consumer credit reports are Equifax, TransUnion, and Experian. Each of these organization's reports contain information about how much credit you have, how much credit you use, your payment history, etc. TurboTax is a software that helps with preparing income tax returns. E-Trade is an electronic trading platform to trade financial assets. Oracle is a computer technology company that designs, manufactures, and sells software and hardware products and offers complementary services. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. (2024, January). List of consumer reporting companies.
Retrieved February 5, 2024, from https://www.consumerfinance.gov/consumer-tools/credit-reportsand-scores/consumer-reporting-companies/companies-list 

99. Which of the following statements about credit card grace periods is true: 
A. A grace period is usually a minimum of 10 days.
B. You are not charged interest during a grace period.
C. All credit cards offer grace periods.
D. Interest rate doubles during a grace period.

99. B
You are not charged interest during a grace period. A grace period for a credit card is a period between the end of a billing cycle and the date your payment is due. During this time, you are not charged interest until after your due date. Typically, grace periods continually renew as long as you pay your credit card balance in full every month. Grace periods are typically a minimum of 21 days but can be longer. Although most credit cards offer a grace period, not all of them do. The interest rate of the credit card doesn't double during a grace period. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Rathner, S., & McGuire, V.C. (2023, July 5). How credit card grace periods work. Retrieved February
2, 2024, from https://www.nerdwallet.com/article/credit-cards/credit-card-grace-period 

7. In most countries, credit reporting agencies are required to 
A. provide borrowers yearly access to their credit reports for free.
B. retain inaccurate credit information on an individual's credit report.
C. allow borrowers to remove criminal records from their credit histories.
D. grant borrowers unlimited free access to their credit reports.

7. A
Provide borrowers yearly access to their credit reports for free. Credit reporting agencies are generally required to provide borrowers a yearly credit report for free. Further requests for credit reports may be granted, but may cost additional money or may hurt the individual's credit score. Credit reporting agencies are not usually required to provide unlimited free access to credit reports. In many countries, credit reporting agencies are not required to remove criminal history from a borrower's credit report. In fact, criminal history is sometimes required to remain on a person's credit report. Credit reporting agencies are generally required to remove inaccurate credit information (provided that it can be verified as inaccurate) from a borrower's credit history within a reasonable amount of time. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 8
SOURCE: Fay, B. (2021, December 16). Fair Credit Reporting Act. Retrieved October 23, 2023, from
https://www.debt.org/credit/your-consumer-rights/fair-credit-reporting-act/ 

22. It takes Theodore five years to pay off a loan of $1,000 with a 3% interest rate per year. What was the total cost of Theodore's loan? 
A. $11,500
B. $1,500
C. $150
D. $1,150

22. D
$1,150. The total cost of a loan is the principal (amount of money being borrowed) plus the amount of interest accrued during the time it takes to pay back the loan. The amount of interest a loan accrues is calculated by multiplying the principal times the interest rate ($1,000 X 3% [or 0.03] = $30) times the length of time for which the loan is made ($30 X 5 years = $150). So, Theodore paid $150 on top of his principal. The interest plus the principal is $1,150 ($150 + $1,000 = $1,150), the total cost of the loan. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 8
SOURCE: Kasasa. (2021, March 30). What is my loan payment formula? [+ Tips for a lower interest rate].
Retrieved October 25, 2023, from https://www.kasasa.com/blog/how-to-calculate-loan-payments-in-3easy-steps PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 6 

25. Creditors are required to inform consumers about __________ before offering them a credit product. 
A. fees and penalties
B. their credit scores
C. the state of the economy
D. the company's history

25. A
Fees and penalties. Laws require creditors to provide certain information to consumers before extending credit to them. This ensures consumers are able to make well-informed decisions. For example, creditors must provide information about the fees and penalties that consumers will be required to pay. While consumers have the right to a free copy of their credit reports, the creditors are not required to provide information about consumers' credit scores before offering them a credit product. Creditors are not required to inform consumers about the state of the economy or the company's history before offering them a credit product. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Mangis, L. (2017, December 19). Consumer credit laws and what you need to know about them.
Retrieved October 23, 2023, from https://www.advantageccs.org/blog/consumer-credit-laws-and-whatyou-need-to-know-about-them 

26. Businesses can help protect customers from credit card fraud by requesting customers who pay with credit cards to 
A. show the signature on the back.
B. pay an additional fee.
C. discard credit receipts on site.
D. pay with cash instead.

26. A
Show the signature on the back. Employees should compare the signature on the card with the one on the receipt to help ensure the card is being presented by the card's owner. In some cases, merchants are legally allowed to charge their customers an additional fee if using a credit card, but doing so does not help protect customers from credit card fraud. Asking a customer to pay with cash when they prefer to use credit is rude and unhelpful. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Consumerist. (2018, May 4). 10 answers to credit card questions we get asked all the time. Retrieved
October 25, 2023, from https://www.consumerreports.org/consumerist/10-answers-to-credit-cardquestions-we-get-asked-all-the-time/ PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 7 

30. Which of the following is the best way for Jane to obtain her credit score: 
A. By checking her credit card statement
B. By asking her employer for the information
C. By applying for an account with a credit union
D. By adding together her credit card balances

30. A
By checking her credit card statement. While most individuals know that they can obtain their credit reports free of charge from the three nationwide credit bureaus annually, many don't realize that these credit reports don't contain their credit scores. Instead, individuals can usually get their credit scores from their credit card or loan statements, a credit score service, or a non-profit credit counselor. Jane cannot obtain her credit score by adding together her credit card balances or by applying for an account with a credit union. A credit union is a financial cooperative set up to provide savings and credit services to its members—usually within a business or labor union. Although an employer may obtain an employee's credit report from an authorized credit bureau, the employer may not have the most current information on file. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Equifax. (2023). How can I check credit scores? Retrieved October 24, 2023, from
https://www.equifax.com/personal/education/credit/score/articles/-/learn/how-to-check-creditscore/#:~:text=Credit%20reports%20from%20the%20three%20nationwide%20 credit%20bureaus%20do%20not,or%20free%20credit%20scoring%20site PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 8 

31. One reason it is important to verify that credit agencies have current information about your credit history is because incorrect data can affect your ability to 
A. sell assets.
B. obtain a bank loan.
C. declare bankruptcy.
D. pay your bills.

31. B
Obtain a bank loan. Credit is the arrangement by which businesses can purchase now and pay later. A credit agency is a business that maintains files of credit information on individuals and businesses. It is important to make sure that credit agencies have accurate information about your credit history because other businesses purchase the reports to make decisions about extending credit or providing a loan to you. Your credit history does not necessarily affect your ability to pay your bills, your ability to declare bankruptcy, or your ability to sell assets. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 8
SOURCE: Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. (2015, August). What your credit report says about you.
Retrieved October 24, 2023, from https://www.philadelphiafed.org//media/frbp/assets/institutional/education/publications/what-your-credit-report-says-about-you.pdf 

34. A credit plan that requires a signed contract, a down payment, and the balance to be paid over a specific period of time is called __________ credit. 
A. open
B. revolving
C. installment
D. regular

34. C
Installment. Customers must usually pay a finance charge, or interest, for the privilege of using this kind of credit. Revolving credit plans do not require down payments. Regular, or open, credit allows credit users to buy at any time during a set period, usually 30 days. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance)

36. A debtor-creditor relationship exists when 
A. a sale is paid in full.
B. a contract is invalidated.
C. stocks are liquidated.
D. interest is charged.

36. D
Interest is charged. When an individual or business charges interest on money that another individual or business borrows, a debtor-creditor relationship exists. An invalid contract and a sale that is paid in full at the time of transaction do not establish a debtor-creditor relationship. In some situations, a debtor may liquidate stocks to pay a creditor; however, this does not always occur. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 8
SOURCE: Encyclopedia Britannica. (2023). Debtor and creditor. Retrieved October 23, 2023, from
https://www.britannica.com/money/debtor-creditor-relationship 

40. In most countries, there are laws in place to protect consumers from unfair credit practices such as 
A. adhering to standardized procedures that are transparent and understandable.
B. providing the terms and conditions of credit agreements in clear language.
C. discriminating against certain demographics when reviewing applications for credit.
D. banning debt collectors from threatening consumers that owe money.

40. C
Discriminating against certain demographics when reviewing applications for credit. Many countries have consumer credit protection laws in place to prevent debtors from being treated unfairly by creditors. For example, in the United States, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act requires banks and credit card companies to make credit equally available to all credit-worthy applicants regardless of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, or age. Banning debt collectors from threatening consumers that owe money, adhering to standardized procedures, and providing clear terms and conditions are all examples of fair credit practices—not unfair practices. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Fay, B. (2021, July 13). The Federal Consumer Credit Protection Act and how it protects you. Retrieved
October 23, 2023, from https://www.debt.org/credit/your-consumer-rights/protection-act/ PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 10 

47. Arial is a high school student working 10 hours a week at a part-time job. She wants to buy her first car. She has $1,000 saved for a down payment and plans to obtain a car loan for the remaining purchase price. What should she do first? 
A. Test drive several used car models
B. Get preapproved for a car loan
C. Research a new car model that she likes
D. Determine how much debt she can afford

47. D
Determine how much debt she can afford. It's important for a consumer to determine how much debt they can afford before obtaining a loan or making a big purchase. Since Arial works part-time and only has a small down payment, she shouldn't waste her time researching a new car model that she probably cannot afford. It's better to personally determine the amount of financing needed before seeking a preapproved car loan. Arial should delay test driving any cars until she determines a realistic amount to spend and has conducted some research on cars within her budget. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Better Money Habits. (2023). 8 tips for buying your first car. Retrieved October 25, 2023, from
https://bettermoneyhabits.bankofamerica.com/en/auto/buying-your-first-car 

51. Which of the following is a cost of credit: 
A. Rebates
B. Finance charges
C. Discounts
D. Fidelity bonds

51. B
Finance charges. Finance charges are the interest charged on credit accounts that are not paid in full at the end of each month. Discounts are cash deductions that are often provided as an incentive for early payment of an account. Fidelity bonds are a type of insurance that protects businesses from losses due to employee theft. A rebate is a return of part of the price a customer pays for a good or service, which is usually offered by the manufacturer of the good. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 8
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit is Due (Credit and Its Importance)

54. A business that responds to a customer's complaint or inquiry about their credit account within a certain time limit stated by federal law is following the guidelines of the 
A. Fair Credit Reporting Act.
B. Equal Credit Opportunity Act.
C. Truth-in-Lending Act.
D. Fair Credit Billing Act.

54. D
Fair Credit Billing Act. The Fair Credit Billing Act requires businesses which extend credit to respond within 30 days to any customer's complaint or inquiry about a billing error. The Truth-in-Lending Act requires businesses to provide the customer with all the information that applies to their account and send regular updated statements showing the account status. The purpose of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act is to make the granting of credit fair by prohibiting the denial of credit based on an applicant's gender, race, age, marital status, or national origin. The Fair Credit Reporting Act gives consumers the right to inspect the files of their credit history at any credit agency and to have any mistakes corrected. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance)

56. Marty recently took out a personal loan from his credit union for $7,500. The interest rate for the loan is 10.875%, and the term of the loan is 36 weeks. Using the exact interest method, what is the amount of interest on the loan, rounded up to the nearest cent? 
A. $564.66
B. $56.32
C. $563.12
D. $570.94

56. C
$563.12. To find the amount of interest on the loan using the exact interest method, use the simple interest formula "Interest = Principal X Rate X Time." When using the exact interest method, time is equal to the term of the loan expressed as days divided by the number of days in a year, which is 365. So, in this case, first convert the term of the loan from weeks to days by multiplying by the number of days in a week (36 X 7 = 252 days). Then, calculate the factor Time by dividing the number of days of the loan by the number of days in a year (252 / 365 = 0.6904109). Next, multiply the principal amount of the loan by the interest rate and the time to determine the amount of interest on the loan ($7,500 X 10.875% X 0.6904109 = $563.11638). Finally, round this answer up to the nearest cent to determine the amount of interest on the loan ($563.11638 = $563.12). 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 8
SOURCE: GreggU. (2019, July 1). Calculating exact interest. Retrieved October 23, 2023, from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xgXT4W756jQ 

61. What credit legislation prohibits the denial of credit based on the applicant's race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, age, or public assistance status? 
A. Fair Credit Reporting Act
B. Fair Credit Billing Act
C. Truth-in-Lending Act
D. Equal Credit Opportunity Act

61. D
Equal Credit Opportunity Act. The main purpose of this legislation is to make the granting of credit fair by prohibiting the denial of credit based on the applicant's race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, age, or public assistance status. The Truth-in-Lending Act requires businesses to give credit customers specific information regarding purchases (interest rates, penalties, etc.). The Fair Credit Reporting Act gives consumers the right to inspect and update their credit files. The Fair Credit Billing Act gives businesses which extend credit a specific time by which they must respond to customer complaints about billing errors. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit is Due (Credit and Its Importance)
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 15 

78. The disadvantage to paying just the minimum amount due on your credit card each month is that you 
A. pay interest on purchases.
B. establish a credit rating.
C. defer cash payments.
D. earn quarterly dividends.

78. A
Pay interest on purchases. Credit is the arrangement by which individuals or businesses can purchase now and pay later. Many types of businesses (e.g., banks, large retailers) offer credit cards to consumers and businesses to purchase goods and services. Usually, the credit card issuer sends the credit card holder a monthly statement. The information on the statement includes a list of the purchases made during the billing cycle and the amount owed for the purchases, which includes the interest charges. If the credit card holder pays the minimum amount due, the amount of interest owed accumulates on the balance due until the debt is paid off. Because interest rates can be high, this can be a disadvantage to the credit card holder. It is important to establish a good credit rating in order to borrow money in the future from other lenders. Therefore, establishing a credit rating is not necessarily a disadvantage. Credit card holders do not earn quarterly dividends on their credit cards. Temporary deferment of cash payment is an advantage to credit card holders. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 8
SOURCE: Bloomenthal, A. (2023, May 6). Credit card: What it is, how it works, and how to get one. Retrieved
October 23, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/c/creditcard.asp 

83. Which of the following is a commonly used credit card: 
A. Shell Oil
B. Visa
C. Diners Club
D. Macy's

83. B
Visa. Visa is one of the most commonly used credit cards. Others include MasterCard, American Express, and Discover. Diners Club is considered a travel and entertainment card. Macy's credit card is for a credit account offered by that chain of department stores. Shell Oil's credit card is for credit purchases only at its outlets. However, Shell also offers a Shell MasterCard for use wherever MasterCard is accepted. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 8
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance)

86. Dan is working part-time delivering pizzas. He has a new credit card with 0% interest, a credit limit of $5,000, and no minimum payment required for the first six months. The card also grants 1% cash back for all purchases. How can he wisely handle his account for the first six months? 
A. Pay the balance in full each month
B. Make no payments until the six-month period is over
C. Make small monthly payments
D. Earn more cash back by using all of the available credit

86. A
Pay the balance in full each month. To use a credit card responsibly, an individual should only make purchases that are within their budget and that they are able to pay in full each month. It is wise to avoid large credit card balances since they can be difficult to pay and eventually incur interest. It's unwise to delay payments on a credit card and run up a large balance. Waiting until the six-month period is over will likely result in high interest charges. Using all available credit is unwise because it can negatively impact a person's credit score and create a large balance that charges interest and is difficult to pay. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 8
SOURCE: Washington State Department of Financial Institutions. (n.d.). Using credit cards wisely. Retrieved
October 24, 2023, from https://dfi.wa.gov/financial-education/information/using-credit-cards-wisely 

88. Which of the following explains what credit is: 
A. An arrangement to buy now, pay later
B. The amount due after a partial credit payment
C. The amount charged for use of a credit card
D. A legal claim to an item of property

88. A
An arrangement to buy now, pay later. Credit is the arrangement by which businesses or individuals can purchase now and pay later. Businesses use credit to obtain goods and services to sell, and consumers use credit to purchase those goods and services. A legal claim to an item of property is a lien. It protects the seller if the buyer does not complete their payments. An annual fee is the amount of money charged on a yearly basis for the privilege of using certain kinds of credit such as a bank card. The outstanding balance is the remaining amount that is owed to the creditor after the credit user has made a partial payment on their account. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 8
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance)

94. Chris wants to open a small business, and he has a very good business plan that is likely to succeed. He will most likely go to a(n) __________ for a loan. 
A. investment bank
B. mortgage company
C. insurance provider
D. traditional bank

94. D
Traditional bank. Traditional banks such as Wells Fargo, Bank of America, etc. are typically good options for smallbusiness loans. Investment banks specialize in helping larger corporations and governments issue securities. Insurance providers do not give out loans. A mortgage company specializes in real-estate (property) loans. There is not enough information provided about Chris's business venture to determine if he wants to purchase an existing property or build a new facility. 
SOURCE: Managing Credit Grade 12
SOURCE: Betterton, K. (2023, April 18). How to apply for a small business loan for your startup. Retrieved
October 24, 2023, from https://www.uschamber.com/co/start/startup/how-to-apply-for-a-small-businessloan 

