19. Whenever Lucas goes to the dentist, he is responsible for paying 25% of the total bill. His dental insurance pays for the rest of each bill. The portion that Lucas pays is a(n) 
A. deductible.
B. indemnity.
C. copayment.
D. premium.

19. C
Copayment. A copayment, also known as a copay, is a set amount that a policyholder is responsible for paying when s/he sees a doctor, dentist, or other health care provider, while their health insurance company pays for the remainder of the bill. A premium is a fee paid to an insurance company for providing insurance protection. A deductible is the amount of money a person pays before their insurance begins to pay for expenses. Indemnity insurance protects the policyholder against significant damages or financial loss. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 8
SOURCE: Depersio, G. (2023, August 28). Copay vs. deductible: What's the difference? Retrieved August 31,
2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/051415/what-difference-between-copayand-deductible.asp PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 5 

20. How can you protect yourself from phishing attacks trying to steal your identity? 
A. Strengthen your passwords.
B. Be suspicious of unsolicited phone calls.
C. Monitor your credit card statements.
D. Keep your mail safe from thieves.

20. B
Be suspicious of unsolicited phone calls. Phishing refers to calls or emails used by thieves to gather personal information to steal your identity. When thieves use stolen mail, credit card information, or passwords to steal your identity, it is not considered an act of phishing. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 8
SOURCE: O'Shea, B. (2023, February 7). Identity theft: What it is, how to prevent it, warning signs and
tips. Retrieved August 30, 2023, from https://www.nerdwallet.com/article/finance/how-to-preventidentity-theft 

23. To determine an individual’s insurance __________, an insurance company will consider a variety of factors, including age, gender, medical history, and occupation. 
A. agent
B. premium
C. deductible
D. copay

23. B
Premium. An insurance premium is a fee paid to an insurance company for providing insurance protection. Insurance companies determine this fee by evaluating many factors relating to the customer to properly account for risk. These factors include age, gender, medical history, and occupation. An insurance copay is a flat fee that an individual pays for a covered health-care service. This fee varies depending on the insurance plan, but it is normally a set fee that is not determined by an individual’s personal characteristics or history. An insurance deductible is the amount a customer must pay for medical services before their insurance company begins sharing the cost. The deductible amount is normally determined by the individual covered by the plan, and not by the insurance company. An insurance agent is a person who sells insurance policies. They are not typically assigned to a specific individual, nor are they typically assigned based on the individual's age, gender, medical history, or occupation. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 8
SOURCE: Cigna. (2023). How do out-of-pocket costs work? Retrieved August 30, 2023,
from https://www.cigna.com/knowledge-center/copays-deductibles-coinsurance PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 6 

26. How can you easily and automatically track your bank account withdrawals and deposits? 
A. Save your receipts and compare them to your bank statement.
B. Organize your financial paperwork.
C. Make a list of all of your bills and when they are due.
D. Use a mobile banking or budgeting app.

26. D
Use a mobile banking or budgeting app. Technology has made it easy to automatically track your financial transactions and access records of your financial activity. You can connect these apps to your bank accounts, and they will track everything for you. Saving your receipts and comparing them to your bank statement is not an automatic way to track withdrawals and deposits. Organizing your financial paperwork is a good idea, but it is not related to easily and automatically tracking your withdrawals and deposits. Making a list of all of your bills and when they are due is also a good idea, but it is not automatic. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 8
SOURCE: Acevedo, S. (2023, August 30). Best budgeting apps of September 2023. Retrieved August 30,
2023, from https://www.businessinsider.com/personal-finance/best-budgeting-apps 

31. Parker decided to create an Instagram account to share pictures of nature he takes with his new camera. To create a strong and secure online password for his account, Parker should 
A. use his personal information.
B. keep it short in length.
C. reuse a password from another website.
D. make his password a nonsense phrase.

31. D
Make his password a nonsense phrase. To create a strong and secure online password for his account, Parker should make his password a nonsense phrase. A secure password is one that cannot be easily guessed by others. If Parker's letter combinations in his password are not in the dictionary, in published literature, or grammatically correct, it will be harder for others to guess. Using numbers, symbols, uppercase letters, and lowercase letters can also make it more secure. A secure password is one that is long, one that does not contain personal information (such as a birthday, anniversary, pet name, etc.), and one that is not reused from another website. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 8
SOURCE: Mental Floss. (2017, September 26). 8 tips to make your passwords as strong as possible.
Retrieved August 30, 2023, from https://www.mentalfloss.com/article/504786/8-tips-make-yourpasswords-strong-possible 

36. A business is transitioning all its customer records to a digital format. When it gets rid of the old paper records, it should shred the documents to prevent 
A. identity theft.
B. data inaccuracy.
C. hacking.
D. loss of market share.

36. A
Identity theft. Identity theft is the fraudulent acquisition and use of a person's private identifying information (e.g., name, Social Security number), usually for financial gain. Paper records that are thrown away can be a source of personal information. If a company does not shred old paper records, those records could be stolen, leading to identity theft. Shredding customer records does not prevent hacking, loss of market share, or data inaccuracy. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 8
SOURCE: Meyers, J. (n.d.). How to prevent identity theft in a business. Retrieved August 30, 2023, from
https://smallbusiness.chron.com/prevent-identity-theft-business-4017.html PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 9 

41. What behavior is exhibited when an individual recognizes the possibility of an undesirable outcome and continues to work toward a goal? 
A. Flexibility
B. Self-discipline
C. Risk taking
D. Creativity

41. C
Risk taking. Risk taking refers to the understanding and acceptance of not knowing the outcome of one's actions or circumstances. Flexibility refers to the ability to adapt to changes as they occur. Self-discipline is the ability to train yourself to act in ways that will further your goals. Creativity is the ability to generate unique ideas, goods, or services. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 8
SOURCE: LAP-PD-066—Own Your Own (Career Opportunities in Entrepreneurship)

49. When Raina's car was damaged in a hailstorm, she was glad she had automobile insurance because it reduced the cost of car repairs. This is an example of how automobile insurance protects you 
A. legally.
B. medically.
C. financially.
D. culturally.

49. C
Financially. Automobile insurance protects you financially by helping reduce the amount of money you need to pay out of pocket for repairs, damages, theft, etc. Because she has automobile insurance, Raina didn't have to pay as much to repair the damage to her car from the hailstorm. Automobile insurance can help protect you by reducing medical bills and legal fees in the event of an accident, but these protections are not demonstrated in this example. Automobile insurance does not protect you culturally. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 8
SOURCE: Allstate. (2021, December). 6 reasons why you need car insurance. Retrieved August 31, 2023,
from https://www.allstate.com/resources/car-insurance/do-you-need-car-insurance PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 12 

50. A critical aspect of financial planning involves 
A. setting broad financial goals.
B. investing money in high-risk securities.
C. obtaining several credit cards.
D. saving money for unexpected situations.

50. D
Saving money for unexpected situations. Financial goals are objectives measured in terms of money. Setting financial goals involves financial planning, which is the determination of how to achieve the financial goals. An important aspect of financial planning involves saving money for unexpected situations. Saving money for unexpected situations provides you with funds to pay your bills if you are unable to earn an income for some reason, such as job loss or illness. Obtaining and using several credit cards is problematic if you cannot pay the balances due in a timely manner. The level of investment risk depends on many factors including the individual's comfort level with risk, income level, and age. Financial goals should be specific rather than broad. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 8
SOURCE: Wells Fargo. (1999-2023). 4 steps to manage unexpected expenses. Retrieved August 30, 2023,
from https://www.wellsfargo.com/financial-health/unexpectedexpenses/#:~:text=As%20a%20rule%2C%20you%20should,haven't%20started%20saving%20yet 

51. William's car is damaged. To fix the car, the repairs will cost $1,789. If William's insurance deductible is $750, how much will the insurance company pay for the repairs? 
A. $1,789
B. $1,039
C. $750
D. $789

51. B
$1,039. Individuals and businesses purchase various types of insurance policies. Automobile insurance covers damages related to motor vehicles. The deductible is the amount of money the insured must pay out of pocket. After the deductible has been met, the insurance company pays the balance of the damages. To calculate the amount that the insurance company will pay, subtract William's deductible from the total amount due for the car repairs ($1,789 − $750 = $1,039). 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 8
SOURCE: Girardin, M. (2023, February 10). Car insurance deductibles. Retrieved August 30, 2023, from
https://wallethub.com/edu/ci/car-insurance-deductible/69574 

59. Which of the following is a way in which a consumer can safeguard their information while using mobile and online banking: 
A. Never changing their password
B. Using unique log-in credentials
C. Staying logged in at all times
D. Saving their password in their phone notes

59. B
Using unique log-in credentials. A consumer can safeguard their information while using online and mobile banking by using unique log-in credentials. Your log-in credentials (username, pin, password, etc.) for your mobile or online banking should not be the same as your log-in credentials for your email, social media accounts, work accounts, etc. By keeping your log-in credentials unique, it will make them more secure from hackers. You should never save a password in your phone notes, as it will give someone easy access to your accounts if they have access to your phone. You should change passwords periodically for online or mobile banking to ensure security. You should always log out completely when finished with a banking session. Although some mobile or online banking services automatically log out once you close the app or web page, you should always take initiative to hit the log out button, just in case. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 8
SOURCE: Monroe Federal. (2022). Online and mobile banking safeguards. Retrieved August 30, 2023, from
https://www.monroefederal.com/online-and-mobile-banking-safeguards/ 

75. Insurance is a key element in lifelong financial planning that 
A. protects a person from unethical salespeople.
B. provides protection against financial losses.
C. guarantees a solid financial future.
D. is available only to property owners.

75. B
Provides protection against financial losses. Insurance is designed to protect against financial losses, whether those losses are related to property, health, or even life. Insurance does not protect a person from unethical salespeople or guarantee a solid financial future. Insurance is available to property owners and non-owners alike. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 8
SOURCE: Kagan, J. (2023, April 20). Insurance: Definition, how it works, and main types of policies. Retrieved
August 30, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/i/insurance.asp 

88. Kevin is reviewing his annual credit report. Ever since he misplaced an important tax document containing his Social Security number, he is especially cautious about protecting his identity. Which of the following is most likely to be a red flag for potential identity theft: 
A. “Soft” inquiries from the credit card companies that Kevin applied to
B. Negative information outside the credit reporting time limit
C. Incorrect or outdated address and employer information
D. Accounts in Kevin's name that he doesn't remember opening

88. D
Accounts in Kevin's name that he doesn't remember opening. Your credit report contains a section where all accounts in your name are listed. It's important to review these accounts on a regular basis to ensure that they are authentic. Accounts in your name that you don't remember opening are a major red flag for identity theft. “Soft” inquiries are not signs of identity theft as long as you can attribute them to sources that you recognize. Incorrect or outdated address and employer information is not usually a sign of suspicious activity, either. Usually, incorrect information simply means you need to update your personal details with your credit lenders. Similarly, negative information outside the credit reporting time limit does not usually indicate suspicious behavior; it simply means that you need to follow up with your credit lenders or the credit reporting agency. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 8
SOURCE: Irby, L. (2022, September 23). What to check on your credit report. Retrieved August 30, 2023,
from https://www.thebalancemoney.com/what-to-check-for-on-your-credit-report-960460 PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 21 

94. A business purchases insurance to protect against the risk of burglary. This is an example of __________ the risk. 
A. bonding
B. preventing
C. retaining
D. transferring

94. D
Transferring. A risk is reduced or eliminated by transferring, or shifting, the risk factor to some other person or business. When an employee is bonded, their employer has purchased an insurance policy to cover possible theft or loss involving that employee. Hiring security guards is an example of preventing the risk. If the business takes no precautions, then it is retaining, or keeping, the risk. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 8
SOURCE: LAP-EC-003—Lose, Win, or Draw (Business Risk)

7. Using both a passcode and a fingerprint scan is a form of __________, which helps protect your information from scammers. 
A. phishing
B. channel management
C. multi-factor authentication
D. large-language model

7. C
Multi-factor authentication. Using a combination of passcode and fingerprint scan is a form of multi-factor authentication, a security measure that helps protect your information from scammers and identity thieves. A large-language model is a massive machine learning algorithm that can understand and generate text or other content. Phishing is an online identity-theft scam that fools victims into believing they are submitting sensitive, personal information (such as credit card numbers or bank passwords) to a legitimate website. Channel management is a marketing function that involves identifying, selecting, monitoring, and evaluating sales channels. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Federal Trade Commission. (2023, November 9). What to know about identity theft. Retrieved
February 5, 2024, from https://consumer.ftc.gov/articles/what-know-about-identity-theft 

15. Wren is enrolled in __________, which provides health care coverage for specific groups, including pregnant people with low income and children of low-income families. 
A. Medicaid
B. Life insurance
C. Outpatient services
D. Medicare

15. A
Medicaid. Medicaid provides health care coverage for specific groups of people, including pregnant people with low income, children of low-income families, and parents or caregivers with low income. In general, Medicare is for people who are 65 years or older and individuals with disabilities. Life insurance pays a designated amount upon the death of an insured person. Outpatient services refer to anything that doesn’t require hospitalization. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: UnitedHealthcare. (2024). What is Medicaid? Retrieved February 5, 2024,
from https://www.uhc.com/communityplan/medicaid/what-is-medicaid 

16. When would a person select term life insurance instead of whole life insurance? 
A. They want long-term coverage.
B. They want coverage for a specific time period.
C. They want insurance that builds cash value.
D. They want to pay higher premiums.

16. B
They want coverage for a specific time period. Term life insurance provides coverage for a set amount of time, typically 10, 20, or 30 years. Whole life insurance provides coverage for an entire lifetime, builds guaranteed cash value over time, and costs more than term life insurance. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Rose, G. (2023, G.). Term life vs. Whole life insurance: Differences and how to choose. Retrieved
February 2, 2024, from https://www.nerdwallet.com/article/insurance/term-vs-whole-life-insurance 2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 5 

18. Which of the following individuals would be eligible for workers’ compensation: 
A. Eliana twists her ankle at a company picnic.
B. Dusten falls off a forklift in the warehouse.
C. Betsy is in a car accident on her way to work.
D. Roberto slips on ice outside his house.

18. B
Dusten falls off a forklift in the warehouse. Workers’ compensation covers accidents and injuries that occur during the scope of work. Dusten falling off a forklift in the warehouse occurred during his regularly scheduled duties. Workers’ compensation does not cover incidents that happen on the way to work, so Betsy would not be covered. Roberto slipping on ice is unrelated to work, so he wouldn’t be covered either. Workers’ compensation does not cover recreational activities like company picnics or holiday parties, so Eliana’s injury wouldn’t be covered. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Adam S. Kutner, Injury Attorneys. (2024, February 1). What is not covered by workers’
compensation? Retrieved February 5, 2024, from https://www.askadamskutner.com/workerscompensation/not-covered-by-workers-compensation/ 

33. Zion is enrolled in long-term disability insurance, but he must wait 30 days from the date of his disabling event before receiving benefits. What is this waiting time called? 
A. Affiliation time
B. Reservation
C. Validation cycle
D. Elimination period

33. D
Elimination period. For short- and long-term disability insurance, there is an elimination period, also called a waiting or qualifying period, which is the amount of time an individual needs to wait before receiving benefits. These periods range from seven days for short-term disability and from 30 days to two years for long-term disability. Affiliation time, reservation, and validation cycle are not common terms in disability insurance. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Hurst, A. (2023, November 21). What are elimination periods in disability insurance? Retrieved
February 5, 2024, from https://www.policygenius.com/disability-insurance/disability-insuranceelimination-periods/ 

41. There is a significant difference between the value of Mayim’s car and the amount she owes on it. Mayim should purchase __________ to protect herself from the car’s depreciation. 
A. roadside assistance
B. gap insurance
C. liability insurance
D. uninsured motorist coverage

41. B
Gap insurance. Gap insurance covers the difference between the value of Mayim’s car and the amount she still owes on her loan. A car’s value starts to decrease after it’s purchased, which is known as depreciation. Gap insurance covers the difference and will help Mayim recover a greater value if her car is stolen or totaled. While uninsured motorist coverage, liability insurance, and roadside assistance are useful forms of insurance, they would not help protect Mayim from the depreciation of her car. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Progressive. (2023, September 21). What is gap insurance? Retrieved February 5, 2024,
from https://www.progressive.com/answers/gap-insurance/ 

42. If your landlord’s apartment building burns down, what type of insurance would cover your personal belongings? 
A. Flood insurance
B. Property insurance
C. Renter’s insurance
D. Homeowner’s insurance

42. C
Renter’s insurance. If your apartment burns down, renter’s insurance would cover your personal property. Your landlord’s property insurance only covers losses to the building itself, not your personal belongings. Flood insurance would not be particularly helpful in case of an apartment fire. Homeowner’s insurance would apply if you owned the apartment instead of renting it. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Folger, J. (2023, August 6). 6 good reasons to get renter’s insurance. Retrieved February 2, 2024,
from https://www.investopedia.com/articles/personal-finance/082714/6-good-reasons-get-rentersinsurance.asp 2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 11 

43. What is the best way to protect against identity theft? 
A. Asking the post office to hold your mail while you’re on vacation
B. Sharing private information with friends and family on social media
C. Reusing the same password across multiple platforms
D. Keeping your Social Security card in your purse or wallet for easy access

43. A
Asking the post office to hold your mail while you’re on vacation. While it’s not always possible to completely protect yourself from identity thieves, there are several practices that can help keep your information safe. Reviewing your financial statements regularly and asking the post office to hold your mail while you’re on vacation are two methods. Reusing the same password across platforms makes it easy for people to hack into your accounts. Social media isn’t private, so you should avoid oversharing online. Purses and wallets can be stolen, so it’s best to keep your Social Security card in a safe place at home. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Equifax. (2024). How can I better protect against identity theft? Retrieved February 5, 2024,
from https://www.equifax.com/personal/education/identity-theft/articles/-/learn/how-to-protectagainst-identity-theft/ 

48. Hasan accidentally hits a mailbox on his drive to school. Which type of insurance would likely cover the repair costs? 
A. Comprehensive insurance
B. Gap insurance
C. Property damage liability insurance
D. Personal injury protection insurance

48. C
Property damage liability insurance. Property damage liability insurance covers repair costs to buildings, vehicles, fences, or mailboxes in an accident. Personal injury protection insurance, sometimes called no-fault insurance, covers medical expenses no matter whose fault the accident was. If Hasan’s car was damaged by storms, falling objects, or anything other than an accident, then comprehensive insurance would cover the repair cost. Gap insurance covers the difference between the car’s worth and the amount Hasan owes on the loan. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Gula, D. (2023, June 8). The 8 key types of car insurance. Retrieved February 5, 2024, from
https://www.nerdwallet.com/article/insurance/types-of-car-insurance 

57. Pooja wants to ensure she can receive part of her life insurance policy’s death benefit if she develops a terminal illness—this way, she’ll be able to pay for medical treatments. Which life insurance rider should she pursue? 
A. Accidental death rider
B. Child term rider
C. Waiver of premium rider
D. Accelerated death benefit rider

57. D
Accelerated death benefit rider. Insurance riders provide additional benefits that aren’t already covered by one’s life insurance policy. The accelerated death benefit rider allows Pooja to access her policy’s death benefit if she develops a terminal illness. Qualified events include terminal illness diagnosis, organ transplants, and a permanent move to a nursing home. A child term rider would allow Pooja to cover her children instead of buying separate policies. The waiver of premium rider would pay her life insurance premiums if Pooja became disabled and couldn’t work. The accidental death rider increases the payout to Pooja’s beneficiaries if she dies from a covered accident. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Moore, B. (2021, July 6). Life insurance riders: What you need to know. Retrieved February 5, 2024,
from https://www.nerdwallet.com/article/insurance/life-insurance-riders 

60. Troy has caused several car accidents, while Marjorie is a safe driver. Troy’s insurance premium will likely be __________ Marjorie’s. 
A. more accurate than
B. the same as
C. lower than
D. higher than

60. D
Higher than. Insurance companies determine premium costs based on a driver’s risk. Because Troy has caused several accidents, insurance companies view him as a higher risk and will likely increase his premiums. Marjorie’s insurance premium is likely lower than Troy’s. There is no reason to believe Troy’s premium is more accurate than Marjorie’s—both should be accurate. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Kim, G. (2023, October 18). How much will my car insurance go up after an accident? Retrieved
February 2, 2024, from https://www.bankrate.com/insurance/car/rates-after-an-accident/ 

72. Kit is young, healthy, and makes a comfortable salary. Should they purchase health insurance? 
A. Yes, accidents are unpredictable.
B. No, health insurance leads to medical debt.
C. Yes, all their medical expenses will be covered.
D. No, they should invest the money in a 503(b).

72. A
Yes, accidents are unpredictable. Even if Kit is healthy today, something bad could happen to them tomorrow. Health insurance would provide a safety net in case of an accident. With health insurance, some of Kit’s medical expenses will be covered, but not all of them. Not having health insurance often contributes to medical debt. 503(b) is a designation for pharmacies that create large batches of medications. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Kissell, C. (2024, January 18). What happens if you don’t have health insurance? Retrieved
February 2, 2024, from https://www.forbes.com/advisor/health-insurance/what-happens-if-you-donthave-health-insurance/ 

81. Medicare provides medical coverage for people with disabilities and those who are age 
A. 65 and older.
B. 55 and younger.
C. 70 and younger.
D. 60 and older.

81. A
65 and older. Medicare is a government-sponsored program designed to help provide healthcare coverage for individuals with disabilities and seniors who are age 65 and older. Medicare is funded by taxes and enrollment is unrelated to income level. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: McWhinney, J. (2023, October 16). Medicare vs. Medicaid: What’s the difference? Retrieved
February 5, 2024, from https://www.investopedia.com/articles/pf/07/medicare-vs-medicaid.asp 

83. Which of the following individuals would be eligible for unemployment benefits: 
A. JeFreda, who was laid off due to lack of work
B. Greta, who was fired for misconduct
C. Saquon, who quit his full-time job
D. Nathan, who embezzled from the company

83. A
JeFreda, who was laid off due to lack of work. To qualify for unemployment benefits, someone must be unemployed through no fault of their own and meet their state’s requirements for time worked or wages earned. JeFreda, who was laid off due to lack of work and not performance issues, could receive unemployment benefits. Disqualifying circumstances include being fired for misconduct, quitting without good cause, harassment, insubordination, and illegal activities, like embezzling funds. Saquon, Nathan, and Greta would not be eligible to receive unemployment benefits. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Doyle, A. (2022, December 7). How to tell if you are eligible for unemployment benefits. Retrieved
February 5, 2024, from https://www.thebalancemoney.com/guidelines-for-unemployment-eligibility2064135 

96. Arson, inflated property damage claims, and false burglary reports fall under which of the following types of insurance fraud: 
A. Auto
B. Homeowner
C. Healthcare
D. Workers’ compensation

96. B
Homeowner. Arson, false or inflated property damage, false or inflated burglary or theft reports, and intentional damage claims are examples of homeowner fraud. Examples of healthcare fraud include billing for services not provided and double billing. Auto fraud includes staged accidents and false or inflated theft repair claims. Workers’ compensation fraud includes faking injuries and working while collecting workers’ compensation benefits. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Pennsylvania Office of Attorney General. (2024). Types of insurance fraud. Retrieved February 5,
2024, from https://consumer.ftc.gov/articles/what-know-about-identity-theft 

1. When purchasing homeowners' or renters' insurance, it is important to document your belongings with a home inventory list that includes 
A. original costs.
B. actual cash values.
C. a rider for expensive items.
D. replacement costs.

1. A
Original costs. A home inventory should include the numbers of items, when they were purchased, and the original cost. Replacement cost refers to the amount of money required to replace lost items with new purchases and can only be determined after a loss occurs. Actual cash value is the depreciated remaining value of an item and is determined at the time of a loss. A rider adds insurance coverage for expensive items like jewelry or collectibles. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: State Farm. (2022, September 1). How to create a home inventory. Retrieved October 25, 2023, from
https://www.statefarm.com/simple-insights/residence/home-inventory-how-to-create-one 

3. Which of the following statements about purchasing life insurance as a young adult is true: 
A. It is more difficult to qualify for a life insurance plan if you are healthy.
B. It is best to wait to purchase life insurance until the age of 50.
C. The younger you are, the more expensive life insurance will be.
D. The sooner you buy life insurance, the larger the cash value will grow.

3. D
The sooner you buy life insurance, the larger the cash value will grow. A benefit to purchasing life insurance as a young adult is that it will allow the cash value to grow larger. In simpler terms, some life insurance policies, such as a permanent life insurance policy, accumulate cash value over time as you pay premiums and by earning interest. As a result, the longer you have a life insurance plan, the more cash value you will have and be able to access if needed. The younger you are, the cheaper life insurance will be. It is best to purchase life insurance in your 20s rather than at the age of 50. Buying life insurance at a young age is cheaper because younger people are generally healthier and have less risk associated with them. In addition, buying at a young age could lock in lower rates as you age or develop any health issues. It is easier, not more difficult, to qualify for a life insurance plan if you are healthy, as there is less risk involved. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Western & Southern Financial Group, Inc. (2023, June 14). Life insurance for young adults. Retrieved
October 25, 2023, from https://www.westernsouthern.com/life-insurance/life-insurance-for-young-adults 

11. Which of the following is a way that businesses can protect consumers from financial loss when consumers buy products: 
A. By labeling products accurately
B. By providing protective packaging
C. By offering warranties or guarantees
D. By providing complete product-use instructions

11. C
By offering warranties or guarantees. Businesses can protect consumers financially by helping them get their money’s worth from the products they buy. By offering warranties or guarantees with products, businesses can protect consumers from financial loss if the product they buy is not up to standard. By providing product-use instructions, protective packaging, and appropriate labels, businesses protect the safety of consumers. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 8
SOURCE: LAP-PM-007—Protect and Serve (Consumer Protection)

12. Employees that participate in employer-sponsored insurance plans will see a __________ for the amount of the insurance on their paychecks each pay period. 
A. tax
B. credit
C. bonus
D. deduction

12. D
Deduction. A deduction is anything that is taken out of your paycheck. Common paycheck deductions include social security payments, taxes, and insurance payments. Employees who participate in employer-sponsored insurance plans will see deductions on their paychecks each pay period for the amount that they owe. They will not see credits or bonuses, since insurance is an expense and not a source of income. Insurance deductions are not tax, since the government does not take them out. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Lazarony, L. (2021, September 21). Paychecks 101: How to read a pay stub. Retrieved October 25,
2023, from https://www.credit.com/blog/how-to-read-your-paycheck-stub/ 

19. Who purchases workers' compensation insurance? 
A. Middle managers
B. Medical professionals
C. Employees
D. Employers

19. D
Employers. Workers' compensation insurance covers the costs associated with an employee who is injured at work. It is purchased by any business owner or employer who has hired employees. Employees, the medical professionals, and middle managers do not necessarily purchase workers' compensation insurance. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Insureon. (2023). Workers' compensation insurance. Retrieved October 25, 2023, from
https://www.insureon.com/small-business-insurance/workers-compensation 

24. What is the first thing that you should do if you find a debit card transaction listed on your bank statement that you do not recognize? 
A. Wait to see if your bank corrects the error.
B. Report it to your bank.
C. Deactivate your debit card.
D. Record it in your check register.

24. B
Report it to your bank. It's important to quickly report and investigate unfamiliar debit card transactions so the bank can resolve a potential error or determine if you are a victim of fraud. You should only record debit card transactions that you recognize in your check register. You should only deactivate your debit card when it is lost, stolen, or used fraudulently. You should not depend on your bank to identify debit card transactions that don't belong to you. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Caldwell, M. (2021, November 9). Learn how to balance your checkbook. Retrieved October 24, 2023,
from https://www.thebalancemoney.com/how-to-balance-your-checkbook-2385975 

41. Two factors that influence the cost of homeowners insurance are 
A. the age of your home and the city in which you grew up.
B. where you graduated from college and your claims history.
C. your credit history and the number of cars you own.
D. the location of your home and your marital status.

41. D
The location of your home and your marital status. The cost of homeowners insurance can depend on a variety of factors. Two of those factors are the location of your home and your marital status. If your home is in an area that has a history of vandalism, theft, or weather-related events, then it could increase the cost of your policy. Location can work positively too, as living near a fire station could reduce the cost. In addition, insurers will typically charge lower rates to married couples due to lower assumed risk and will often charge more for a single person. Other factors that could influence the cost of homeowners insurance include your credit history, your claims history, and the age of your home. The number of cars you own, where you graduated from college, and what city you grew up in are not factors that could impact the cost of homeowners insurance. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: See, J. (2023, April 24). Factors that impact your cost of homeowners insurance. Retrieved October 25,
2023, from https://www.bankrate.com/insurance/homeowners-insurance/factors-that-impact-homeinsurance-rates/ 

55. Which of the following is an example of insurance fraud: 
A. A woman exaggerates the value of diamond jewelry stolen from her home.
B. A driver accidentally scratches another car in a parking lot and does not report it to law enforcement.
C. An employee is injured at work and files a claim to collect disability payments.
D. A man crashes into a fence and files a claim for car repairs with his auto collision policy.

55. A
A woman exaggerates the value of diamond jewelry stolen from her home. Insurance fraud is a crime that occurs when someone knowingly makes a false or misleading statement to an insurance company. It is legal for an employee to collect disability payments if they are injured at work and file a claim. Since auto collision policies provide payment for any damage caused by the driver, it is legal for a car owner to file a claim and collect payment if they damage their own vehicle. When a person damages another person's car without reporting it to law enforcement, it's considered a hit and run which is a crime unrelated to insurance fraud. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Hanley, R. (2016, July 9). When a little white lie leads to jail time: What insurance fraud is and how to
avoid it. Retrieved October 25, 2023, from https://www.trustedchoice.com/f/p/what-is-insurance-fraud/ 

59. Morgan received an email that claimed to be from her credit card company. The email said that her account would be cancelled immediately if she didn't follow a link and enter her credit card and social security numbers. After Morgan did so, she found out that the email wasn't actually from her credit card company. Instead, it was a scam designed to steal her personal information. Morgan was a victim of 
A. hacking.
B. baiting.
C. phishing.
D. skimming.

59. C
Phishing. Phishing occurs when a scammer sends out an email made to look like it's from a legitimate company, such as a credit card company, to gain personal information. The phisher typically sends readers to a fake website that asks them to enter personal information, which can include credit card numbers, social security numbers, bank account numbers, etc. It's a good idea to be especially suspicious of any requests for personal information you receive online. Avoid giving out personal information unless you contact the company yourself. Skimming occurs when a thief runs a credit card through a "skimmer" to steal personal information. Hacking involves a person gaining access to a computer system to steal information. Baiting is not a term commonly used to describe phishing. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Microsoft. (2023). Protect yourself from phishing. Retrieved October 24, 2023, from
https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/protect-yourself-from-phishing-0c7ea947-ba98-3bd97184-430e1f860a44 

70. Sarah crashed her car into another vehicle. Fred, the driver of the other vehicle, was hurt in the crash that Sarah caused. What type of car insurance will assist Sarah in paying medical expenses for Fred? 
A. Bodily injury liability insurance
B. Property damage liability
C. Uninsured/Underinsured coverage
D. Personal injury liability

70. A
Bodily injury liability insurance. Bodily injury liability insurance is a type of coverage for a situation where a driver causes injury to another driver. Property damage liability deals with situations in which a driver causes property damage to another person's property. Personal injury liability is not a real coverage, but personal injury protection is. Uninsured/Underinsured coverage is used when a driver is harmed by an uninsured/underinsured person. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 8
SOURCE: Brady, R. (2023, July 7). Liability car insurance covers: What it covers and how much you need.
Retrieved October 25, 2023, from https://www.nerdwallet.com/article/insurance/auto/liability-carinsurance 

73. Which of the following is least likely to be covered by health insurance: 
A. Emergency medical care
B. Routine doctor visits
C. Prescription eyeglasses
D. Lab tests for bloodwork

73. C
Prescription eyeglasses. Health insurance often does not cover the cost for prescription eyeglasses. Separate health insurance policies can be purchased to cover services such as dental and eye care. Emergency medical care, routine doctor visits, and lab tests for bloodwork are covered by most health care plans. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Zastrow, M.A. (2020, March 11). Medical vs. vision insurance: What you should know. Retrieved
October 25, 2023, from https://www.downtowneyes.com/blog/eye-care/medical-vs-vision-insurancewhat-you-should-know/ 

84. Which of the following individuals is most likely to use long-term disability insurance: 
A. Rose, whose doctor made a mistake during her surgery
B. Amin, who is unable to work because of illness
C. Juan, who suffers from Alzheimer's disease
D. Brittany, who was injured in a car crash

84. B
Amin, who is unable to work because of illness. Disability insurance is intended to be used if a person cannot work because of a disability or illness. An automobile insurance policy is more likely to pay for injuries caused by a car crash. A doctor's mistake during a surgery would be covered through a civil lawsuit, and long-term care insurance would be more useful for an Alzheimer's patient. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 12
SOURCE: Fernando, J. (2021, February 21). What is disability insurance? Definition and how it protects you.
Retrieved October 25, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/d/disability-insurance.asp PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 20 

95. Which of the following types of insurance is intended to provide an income to an employee's dependents: 
A. Life
B. Medical
C. Collision
D. Home

95. A
Life. Life insurance is intended to provide an income to an employee's dependents if the employee dies. An employee purchases life insurance to guarantee that surviving dependents will have sufficient income to maintain their standard of living. Some businesses offer life insurance as part of their benefit plan, but in most cases employees must obtain their own life-insurance policies. Medical, home, and collision insurance are not designed to provide an income to an employee's dependents. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 8
SOURCE: Fontinelle, A. (2023, September 21). Life insurance: What it is, how it works, and how to buy a
policy. Retrieved October 24, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/l/lifeinsurance.asp#:~:text=Life%20insurance%20provides%20 financial%20support,Parents%20with%20minor%20children 

99. What must Preston Enterprises pay to the insurance company to maintain its business liability insurance? 
A. Commission
B. Fine
C. Stipend
D. Premiums

99. D
Premiums. Insurance premiums are the fees that the insured pays to the insurer to obtain insurance coverage. A commission is a percentage of the total sale amount paid to the individual or business that makes the sale. A fine is a monetary sum paid to a government agency when an individual or business violates a law. A stipend is a fixed sum of money paid as a salary or allowance. 
SOURCE: Managing Risk Grade 8
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2023, April 20). Premium: Definition, meanings in finance, and types. Retrieved October 24,
2023, from http://www.investopedia.com/terms/p/premium.asp 

