Business Admin Core 2024 Exams

68. A business manager who is calculating the costs of products is performing the marketing function of 
A. accounting.
B. pricing.
C. product/service management.
D. financing.

68. C
Product/Service management. Marketing functions are interrelated activities that must work together to get goods and services from producers to consumers. The product/service management activities of a business involve obtaining, developing, maintaining, and improving a product or service mix in response to market opportunities. Successful product/service management activities include calculating the costs of products. Financing is a business function that involves determining the need for and availability of financial resources to aid in business activities. Pricing is a marketing function that involves determining and adjusting prices to maximize return and meet customers' expectations of value. Accounting is a financial activity or business function that involves keeping and maintaining financial records. 
SOURCE: MK:002 Describe marketing functions and related activities
SOURCE: LAP-MK-002—Work the Big Seven (Marketing Functions)

19. Which of the following is an example of a specific goal: 
A. Increase sales
B. Decrease prices
C. Improve employee morale
D. Improve production by 10%

19. D
Improve production by 10%. A goal is a statement that clearly describes a task to be accomplished. Some goals are general, and some are specific. Often, when businesses create general goals, they then create smaller, more specific goals that can be used to measure progress along the way. An example of a specific goal is to improve production by 10%. Increasing sales, decreasing prices, and improving employee morale are examples of general goals. 
SOURCE: MK:015 Discuss actions employees can take to achieve the company's desired results
SOURCE: LAP-MK-015—Act Now! (Employee Actions and Company Goals)

71. The MNZ Company must determine how to develop new goods and services to meet its customers' needs and wants. What marketing function is the MNZ Company focusing on? 
A. Product/Service management
B. Marketing-information management
C. Place
D. Promotion

71. A
Product/Service management. Product/Service management is the marketing function that focuses on obtaining, developing, maintaining, and improving a product mix in response to market opportunities. The promotion function focuses on informing existing and potential customers about the business's goods and services. Place is the element of the marketing mix that focuses on getting selected product in the right place at the right time. Marketinginformation management is the marketing function that focuses on gathering, accessing, synthesizing, evaluating, and disseminating the information that a business needs to make business decisions. 
SOURCE: MK:002 Describe marketing functions and related activities
SOURCE: LAP-MK-002—Work the Big Seven (Marketing Functions)

Business Management Administration 2024 Exams

75. In Maria's community, the accumulation of wealth is a shared value that is often passed down from generation to generation. As a result, Maria is often attracted to luxury products. This is an example of a __________ influence on Maria's buying behavior. 
A. psychological
B. situational
C. personal
D. cultural

75. D
Cultural. A person's culture often has the most significant impact on their buying behavior. Culture is the system of values, traditions, and preferences that is handed down from one generation to the next. Because Maria's community values wealth, she is more likely to buy luxury products. This is an example of a cultural influence on her buying behavior, not a psychological, situational, or personal influence. Psychological influences have to do with a person's unique perception of the world. Situational influences are related to an individual's specific situation at the time. Personal influences include an individual's unique characteristics, such as their age, gender, stage of life, or occupation. 
SOURCE: MK:014 Explain factors that influence customer/client/business buying behavior
SOURCE: LAP-MK-014—Cause and Effect (Buying Behavior)

56. Zae is happy with the laptop he purchased because it meets his needs. Zae is demonstrating customer 
A. feedback.
B. appreciation.
C. satisfaction.
D. loyalty.

56. C
Satisfaction. Customer satisfaction is a measure of how well a business or product meets or exceeds customer expectations. If Zae is happy with his laptop, then he is demonstrating customer satisfaction. Customer loyalty is a customer's preference for a business; in other words, how often the customer purchases the business's goods or services. Customer appreciation is a term used to describe a business’s demonstration of goodwill to customers. Customer feedback is evaluative or corrective information given by the customer to the salesperson. Zae is not giving customer feedback in this instance. 
SOURCE: MK:019 Demonstrate connections between company actions and results (e.g., influencing consumer
buying behavior, gaining market share, etc.) 
SOURCE: LAP-MK-019—Just Do It...Right (Company Actions and Results)

4. Brendon admires professional basketball players and often purchases products that players have endorsed. Which of the following groups is influencing Brendon's buying behavior: 
A. Subculture group
B. Reference group
C. Association group
D. Membership group

4. B
Reference group. Even social groups that people don't belong to can affect their buying behavior. These are called reference groups, and they include groups someone aspires to be a part of as well as groups they want to distance themselves from. In this example, Brendon's buying behavior is being influenced by a reference group—specifically, professional basketball players. His behavior is not being influenced by a membership group or a subculture in this example. A membership group is a group that someone is a part of, such as a church or sports team. A subculture is a culture within a larger culture, such as Hispanics in the United States. An association group is not generally a term used to describe a particular influence on buying behavior. 
SOURCE: MK:014 Explain factors that influence customer/client/business buying behavior
SOURCE: LAP-MK-014—Cause and Effect (Buying Behavior)

Entrepreneurship 2024 Exams

50. How can Tracy make sure that her marketing campaigns support her company's goals? 
A. Engage in market planning
B. Select the right channels
C. Use pricing strategies
D. Speak with customers

50. A
Engage in market planning. Market planning helps organizations strategize to align marketing tactics with goals. Tracy can use planning activities to make sure that the actions she takes are working toward an organizational goal. Selecting the right channels, using pricing strategies, or speaking with customers will not necessarily help Tracy create marketing campaigns that align with the company’s goals. 
SOURCE: MK:002 Describe marketing functions and related activities
SOURCE: LAP-MK-002—Work the Big Seven (Marketing Functions)

86. Which of the following is an internal factor influencing a business’s buying behavior: 
A. Laws and regulations
B. Company structure
C. The economy
D. Competition

86. B
Company structure. There are many factors that influence a business’s buying behavior. Internal factors include business size and structure, as well as business policies and procedures. For example, a small business probably does not have a purchasing department. Instead, the owner or manager may be in charge of the entire buying process. In large corporations, however, there may be dozens of employees whose jobs are specifically focused on purchasing (professional buyers). B2B marketers take a different approach to each type of business. The economy, competition, and laws and regulations are all external factors influencing a business’s buying behavior. 
SOURCE: MK:014 Explain factors that influence customer/client/business buying behavior
SOURCE: LAP-MK-014—Cause and Effect (Buying Behavior)
2024 HS ICDC ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 22 

55. Which of the following is an example of corporate responsibility: 
A. A company uses recycled materials in its products.
B. A company pays its taxes on time.
C. A company expands its facilities.
D. A company provides professional development for employees.

55. A
A company uses recycled materials in its products. Showing concern for the environment is one way that companies demonstrate corporate responsibility. Corporate responsibility involves going above and beyond just following rules and regulations—paying taxes on time is expected of each and every company by the law. Expanding facilities does not necessarily exhibit concern for the community, the environment, or employees. Offering professional development to employees is considered providing proper training, not demonstrating corporate responsibility. 
SOURCE: MK:019 Demonstrate connections between company actions and results (e.g., influencing consumer
buying behavior, gaining market share, etc.) 
SOURCE: LAP-MK-019—Just Do It…Right (Company Actions and Results)

Finance 2024 Exams

18. What type of company is most likely to focus on achieving stability as its primary goal? 
A. Large
B. New
C. Old
D. Small

18. B
New. For several different reasons, many businesses fail within the first few years. So, for many startup companies, simply achieving stability is a main goal. After the company achieves stability, it can reevaluate its goals and focus more on growth. While old, small, and large companies should all be sure to achieve stability, it isn't necessarily their main or only goal. 
SOURCE: MK:015 Discuss actions employees can take to achieve the company's desired results
SOURCE: LAP-MK-015—Act Now! (Employee Actions and Company Goals)
FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 5 

61. Gianna’s personal circle of friends is her 
A. family.
B. reference group.
C. membership group.
D. subculture.

61. C
Membership group. Gianna’s personal circle of friends is a membership group, a social group she belongs to. Membership groups can have a strong influence on consumer buying behavior. A reference group is a group you’re not a part of (you might want to be a part of it or want to avoid being a part of it). A subculture is a culture within a culture that is usually defined by ethnicity, religion, geographic region, etc. Gianna’s personal circle of friends is not necessarily her family. 
SOURCE: MK:014 Explain factors that influence customer/client/business buying behavior
SOURCE: LAP-MK-014—Cause and Effect (Buying Behavior)

28. Wayne keeps his work area neat so he can focus on his job without being surrounded by chaos. What employee action does this illustrate? 
A. Observing safety standards
B. Showing up on time
C. Staying organized
D. Meeting deadlines

28. C
Staying organized. When Wayne keeps his work area neat, he is staying organized. This helps him stay on task and maintain focus. This can help his company achieve many of its goals. In this particular instance, Wayne is not illustrating showing up on time, meeting deadlines, or observing safety standards. 
SOURCE: MK:015 Discuss actions employees can take to achieve the company's desired results
SOURCE: LAP-MK-015—Act Now! (Employee Actions and Company Goals)

Hospitality 2024 Exams

84. Which of the following is an example of a business performing the marketing function of promotion: 
A. Creating product assortments
B. Organizing storage shelves
C. Processing recent shipments
D. Developing attractive displays

84. D
Developing attractive displays. The purpose of the promotion function of marketing is to communicate information about goods, services, images, or ideas to achieve a desired outcome. One way that businesses promote their products is by developing displays that will attract the attention of customers and encourage them to buy. Organizing storage shelves and processing recent shipments are distribution activities. Creating product assortments is a product/service planning activity. 
SOURCE: MK:002 Describe marketing functions and related activities
SOURCE: LAP-MK-002—Work the Big Seven (Marketing Functions)
HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 20 

98. For the last several years, Spaghetti Emporium has sponsored the local Turkey Trot 10k fundraiser. What positive action is the company demonstrating? 
A. Demonstrate corporate responsibility
B. Provide excellent customer service
C. Utilize touchpoints to reinforce company image
D. Provide proper training for employees

98. A
Demonstrate corporate responsibility. All companies have an impact on the communities around them, and they should ensure that impact is positive rather than negative. One way businesses can exhibit corporate responsibility is by showing concern for the community, like by sponsoring youth programs, organizing food drives, hosting charity benefits, or raising money for disaster relief. Providing proper training for employees, utilizing touchpoints to reinforce company image, and providing excellent customer service are positive company actions, but they are not being demonstrated in the example. 
SOURCE: MK:019 Demonstrate connections between company actions and results (e.g., influencing consumer
buying behavior, gaining market share, etc.) 
SOURCE: LAP-MK-019—Just Do It…Right (Company Actions and Results)

23. Monika doesn't usually like to spend a lot of money when dining at restaurants, but tonight she added her sister's meal to her bill because they were celebrating her sister's birthday. In this situation, a __________ influence is guiding Monika's buying behavior. 
A. psychological
B. social
C. cultural
D. situational

23. D
Situational. There are times when specific situations can override the more dominant influences on buying behavior, such as culture or personality. While Monika might not normally spend money when dining out, she made an exception in this case because it was a special occasion: her sister's birthday. Psychological influence involves a consumer's perceptions, beliefs, and attitudes within their own reality. Social interactions have a strong effect on your buying behavior, as much of what you know about making purchases you've learned by watching family and friends. The most significant influence on buying behavior is culture, which is the system of values, traditions, and preferences that is handed down from one generation to the next. 
SOURCE: MK:014 Explain factors that influence customer/client/business buying behavior
SOURCE: LAP-MK-014—Cause and Effect (Buying Behavior)
HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 6 

Marketing 2024 Exams

85. Your personal circle of friends is a 
A. reference group.
B. national culture.
C. membership group.
D. subculture.

85. C
Membership group. Your personal circle of friends is a membership group, a social group that you already belong to. Membership groups can have a strong influence on consumer buying behavior. A reference group is a group you’re not a part of (you might want to be a part of it or want to avoid being a part of it). A national culture applies to an entire country, not just your group of friends. A subculture is a culture within a culture that is usually defined by ethnicity, religion, geographic region, etc. 
SOURCE: MK:014 Explain factors that influence customer/client/business buying behavior
SOURCE: LAP-MK-014—Cause and Effect (Buying Behavior)

31. A customer scrolls through a company’s Instagram page. This is an example of 
A. brand value.
B. ethical behavior.
C. a touchpoint.
D. an emotional motive.

31. C
A touchpoint. A touchpoint is any opportunity a company has to connect with its customers and potential customers. Every business should take advantage of each touchpoint to connect with its customers and potential customers. Touchpoint situations can include a customer interacting with a salesperson in the store, scrolling through a social media page, or receiving a bill in the mail. Scrolling through a company’s Instagram account is not an example of brand value, ethical (or unethical) behavior, or an emotional buying motive. 
SOURCE: MK:019 Demonstrate connections between company actions and results (e.g., influencing consumer
buying behavior, gaining market share, etc.) 
SOURCE: LAP-MK-019—Just Do It…Right (Company Actions and Results)

18. A business might have an excess of goods available for sale if it fails to gather marketing information and makes decisions using the __________ approach to marketing. 
A. low-priced
B. short-term
C. best-guess
D. data-based

18. C
Best-guess. The information gathered through the marketing-information management function enables business owners and managers to make informed decisions about what to sell and to whom to sell, rather than relying on a "best-guess" approach to marketing. Without the data from marketing-information management, businesspeople can only guess at what and how much to offer for sale. An incorrect guess could leave businesses with excess goods that no one wants to buy. The low-priced approach involves selling goods at low prices. The short-term approach involves making decisions to solve immediate problems. The data-based approach involves relying on research and information to make decisions. 
SOURCE: MK:002 Describe marketing functions and related activities
SOURCE: LAP-MK-002--Work the Big Seven (Marketing Functions)
MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 5 

