11. One reason it is important for a business to develop a marketing plan is that the plan 
A. provides guidelines for personnel to meet the company's objectives.
B. allows the business to focus on short-term goals instead of long-term goals.
C. reduces the need to implement corrective action or contingency plans.
D. increases the business's financial security in an unpredictable environment.

11. A
Provides guidelines for personnel to meet the company's objectives. A marketing plan is a set of procedures or strategies designed to attract target customers to a business. A comprehensive marketing plan identifies the specific actions and activities that a company will use to attract its target customers. Therefore, the marketing plan provides guidance for employees who are carrying out the marketing activities. Because internal and external factors change, a marketing plan does not reduce the need for a business to develop corrective action or contingency plans, nor does it increase its financial security. Marketing plans contain both short-term and long-term goals. 
SOURCE: MP:018 Develop marketing plan
SOURCE: Chron. (2021, October 5). Purposes of a marketing plan. Retrieved August 11, 2023, from
https://smallbusiness.chron.com/purposes-marketing-plan-61663.html 

13. One way that a business can learn about its competitors' activities is by 
A. developing product specifications.
B. reviewing secondary data.
C. identifying communication barriers.
D. evaluating intranet efficiencies.

13. B
Reviewing secondary data. By learning about its competitors' markets, products, pricing, and promotional activities, a business can determine its competitors' strengths and weaknesses in the marketplace. By evaluating its competitors' strengths and weaknesses, a business can determine the ways in which it can gain market share. To obtain information about its competitors, the business can collect secondary data, which are information that has been collected for purposes other than the project at hand. Secondary information that the business might review includes its competitors' promotional materials, their products, and industry publications. An intranet is a business's internal computer network. Because a business does not have direct access to its competitors' intranet systems, it would be difficult for a business to obtain specific information about the ways in which its competitors' intranet systems work. Developing product standards will not provide a business with information about a competitor's activities. Communication barriers are problems that interfere with the effective exchange of information. 
SOURCE: MP:012 Conduct competitive analysis
SOURCE: Indeed. (2022, July 22). Primary vs. secondary data in market research. Retrieved August 11, 2023,
from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/primary-vs-secondary-data-marketresearch 

63. Should a business develop permanent marketing strategies? 
A. Yes, changing marketing strategies results in confusion for management.
B. No, businesses must be alert to changes in the marketplace.
C. Yes, the competition will know what to expect from the business.
D. No, marketing strategies change regardless of what the business wants.

63. B
No, businesses must be alert to changes in the marketplace. To operate successfully, a business must be alert to factors that affect or influence marketing strategies. These include economic climate, product characteristics, product quality, actions of competitors, number of competitors, market size, market share, available funds, and the changing needs and wants of consumers. 
SOURCE: MP:001 Explain the concept of marketing strategies
SOURCE: LAP-MP-001—Pick the Mix (Nature of Marketing Strategies)

78. Marketers should check on their markets periodically because markets can 
A. advance.
B. lead.
C. fail.
D. change.

78. D
Change. Though markets may appear to fail, advance, or lead other markets—it is change that prompts marketers to check on their markets periodically. 
SOURCE: MP:003 Explain the concept of market and market identification
SOURCE: LAP-MP-003—Have We Met? (Market Identification)

92. A primary reason that businesses identify market segments is because consumers 
A. are not loyal to popular brands.
B. demand high-quality goods.
C. have different needs and wants.
D. desire the same level of service.

92. C
Have different needs and wants. Successful businesses understand that it is often easier and more cost effective to develop strategies that appeal to a portion of the market rather than the whole market. This is because consumers are unique and have different needs and wants. For example, some consumers want highquality goods and services, while others are less concerned with quality and want low prices. By dividing the market into segments, a business can determine which segments are more likely to buy its products. Then, the business can develop a plan of action to target the market that has similar needs and wants. The business's goal is to develop a loyal customer following and create brand insistence by appealing to the market that is most likely to purchase its products. 
SOURCE: MP:004 Identify market segments
SOURCE: Tarver, E. (2023, March 30). Market segmentation. Retrieved August 11, 2023, from
https://www.investopedia.com/terms/m/marketsegmentation.asp 

5. Who should you talk to when conducting a SWOT analysis for your business? 
A. Only top managers of the company
B. Only mid-level employees
C. Everyone—from company leaders to low-level employees
D. Your competitors—to see how they view your business

5. C
Everyone—from company leaders to low-level employees. Employees at every level of the business will have valuable input for the SWOT analysis, so make sure to include everyone. And don’t forget to look outside your business as well. Suppliers and customers have unique perspectives. However, competitors are unlikely to give unbiased information about your business and therefore should probably not be asked to help with a SWOT analysis. 
SOURCE: MP:010 Conduct SWOT analysis for use in the marketing planning process
SOURCE: LAP-MP-010—Analyze This! (SWOT Analysis)

17. When conducting a market analysis, which of the following should a business do first: 
A. Look at industry standards
B. Pinpoint target customers
C. Determine the purpose
D. Put its analysis into action

17. C
Determine the purpose. A market analysis is a systematic study of a specific market. Companies typically conduct market analysis to determine their target market, understand customers' buying habits, and consider their competition, among other reasons. When conducting a market analysis, the first step a business should take is to determine the purpose of the study. Before starting any market research, it is important for businesses to decide on the purpose of their study and whether it is for internal or external purposes. Once companies do this, then they can look at industry standards, pinpoint target customers, consider their competition, etc. One of the final steps of a market analysis is to put it into action. 
SOURCE: MP:009 Conduct market analysis (market size, area, potential, etc.)
SOURCE: Kappel, M. (2022, October 21). How to conduct a market analysis the right way. Retrieved January
8, 2024, from https://www.patriotsoftware.com/blog/accounting/how-to-conduct-a-market-analysis 

30. When conducting a competitive analysis, businesses should 
A. determine the market segments their competitors serve.
B. focus mainly on the weaknesses of their competition.
C. avoid visiting the competitor’s website or storefront.
D. ignore the benefits their competitors offer.

30. A
Determine the market segments their competitors serve. A competitive analysis is the process of researching a competitor to gain insights into their products, sales, marketing strategies, and more. When conducting a competitive analysis, businesses should determine the market segments their competitors serve, learn about the benefits their competitors offer, understand why customers buy from them, and glean as much information as possible about their products, services, promotion, and prices. When conducting a competitive analysis, businesses should visit their competitor's website and storefront to better learn about their competition and what they have to offer. Businesses should not mainly focus on weaknesses of their competition when conducting a competitive analysis. 
SOURCE: MP:012 Conduct competitive analysis
SOURCE: Ward, S. (2018, December 22). How to write the competitor analysis section of the business plan.
Retrieved January 8, 2024, from https://www.thebalancemoney.com/how-to-write-the-competitiveanalysis-section-of-the-business-plan-2947025 

37. Which of the following is an advantage of segment marketing: 
A. It takes more resources to pull off successfully.
B. It is more precise than mass marketing.
C. It communicates a broad message to a large audience.
D. It is more complex and difficult to produce.

37. B
It is more precise than mass marketing. Segment marketing is the classification of customers into similar groups to appeal to one or more individual segment(s). Segment marketing works because finding out what customers need—and meeting that need—is at the heart of the marketing concept. Plus, when it comes to determining customers’ needs, segment marketing is more precise than mass marketing—designing products and directing marketing activities to appeal to the whole market. A disadvantage of segment marketing is that it takes more resources to pull it off successfully. Another disadvantage is that the product is usually more complex, potentially making it more difficult to produce—and requiring more creativity during design and more money during production. Mass marketing communicates a broad message to a large audience, not segment marketing. 
SOURCE: MP:003 Explain the concept of market and market identification
SOURCE: LAP-MP-003—Have We Met? (Market Identification)

73. Marketers must consider when and from which businesses to buy the product when developing the __________ element of their marketing mix. 
A. price
B. promotion
C. place
D. product

73. C
Place. The marketing mix is a combination of the four elements of marketing—product, price, place, and promotion. The place element can make or break the buying experience. Getting a selected product in the right place at the right time is all about creating convenience for the customer. When developing the place element of their marketing mix, marketers consider when and from which businesses to buy the product. Marketers must also consider price, promotion, and product, but these elements do not consider when and from whom to buy the product. 
SOURCE: MP:001 Explain the concept of marketing strategies
SOURCE: LAP-MP-001—Pick the Mix (Nature of Marketing Strategies)
2024 HS ICDC ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 19 

96. A company divides its consumers on the basis of their lifestyles and personalities. This company is using __________ segmentation. 
A. psychographic
B. geographic
C. demographic
D. behavioral

96. A
Psychographic. Psychographic segmentation is the division of a market on the basis of customers' lifestyles, personalities, attitudes, interests, and values. Demographic segmentation is the division of a market on the basis of its physical and social characteristics (e.g., age group, gender, occupation). Geographic segmentation is the division of a market on the basis of where customers are located. Behavioral segmentation is the division of a market on the basis of customers' responses to a product. 
SOURCE: MP:004 Identify market segments
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2024, January 14). Target market: Definition, purpose, examples, market segments.
Retrieved February 2, 2024, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/t/target-market.asp 

35. A business identifying the customers in one geographic area who have the same needs is an example of selecting a(n) 
A. mass audience.
B. target market.
C. economic resource.
D. qualified lead.

35. B
Target market. A target market is the particular group of customers a business seeks to attract. There are several factors that businesses consider when identifying and selecting a target market. These factors include geographic area and the type of need. Therefore, identifying the customers in one geographic area who have the same needs is an example of selecting a target market. This market might be all customers who live in Florida and need hurricane insurance. A qualified lead is a prospect—any person or business with the potential to purchase a good, service, or idea. Economic resources are the human and natural resources and capital goods used to produce goods and services. A mass audience is all of the readers or viewers reached by a media channel. 
SOURCE: MP:005 Select target market
SOURCE: Entrepreneur. (2023). Target market. Retrieved October 3, 2023, from
https://www.entrepreneur.com/encyclopedia/target-market ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 9 

49. Which of the following could be considered a consumer market: 
A. Retailers
B. Industries
C. Wholesalers
D. Individuals

49. D
Individuals. A consumer market is a market composed of individuals who purchase goods or services to satisfy their personal desires. The other alternatives are considered industrial markets—markets that purchase items for use in the operation of the business, for resale, or for making other goods. 
SOURCE: MP:003 Explain the concept of market and market identification
SOURCE: LAP-MP-003—Have We Met? (Market Identification)

89. In its marketing plan, ROKE Cruise Lines states that it wants to increase its market share for 25- to 40-year-old professional women by six percent in the next eight months. ROKE's marketing objective is related to 
A. changes in market delivery.
B. promotion.
C. its target market.
D. product.

89. C
Its target market. A comprehensive marketing plan addresses many different types of marketing objectives such as promotions, channels of distribution, product development, and target market. ROKE set a specific, measureable, and time-bound goal to increase its market share for a specific target market—25- to 40-year-old professional women. Objectives that address changes in market delivery relate to the channels of distribution or place. Product objectives involve the business's goods and services (e.g., product development). Promotion objectives are goals that address the ways in which the business communicates information about its goods and services to its target market. 
SOURCE: MP:001 Explain the concept of marketing strategies
SOURCE: LAP-MP-001—Pick the Mix (Nature of Marketing Strategies)

92. Gary works for a computer software company. He always keeps up on the technological advances in his industry, and he also makes sure he knows what products his competitors are developing. When Gary gathers this external information, he is participating in 
A. information collecting.
B. competition assessment.
C. threat appraisal.
D. environmental scanning.

92. D
Environmental scanning. When Gary collects information about the environment surrounding his business, he is participating in environmental scanning. This process of gathering external information is an important part of SWOT analysis and the strategic planning process. External information can include technological advances, competitors' developments, the needs of customers, economic trends, and new laws or policies. Threat appraisal, competition assessment, and information collecting are not terms that apply to gathering external information. 
SOURCE: MP:010 Conduct SWOT analysis for use in the marketing planning process
SOURCE: LAP-MP-010—Analyze This! (SWOT Analysis)

93. One reason why it is important to accurately forecast sales for a marketing plan is because the forecast is the basis of other 
A. operational activities.
B. business reports.
C. management techniques.
D. pricing strategies.

93. A
Operational activities. The sales forecast, the prediction of future sales over a specific period of time, is the basis for many other operational activities. The forecast affects decisions about production, distribution, purchasing, promotion, etc. Therefore, the sales forecast needs to be as accurate as possible so the business correctly plans the other operational activities. For example, if the forecast is too high, a business might produce substantially more product than it will be able to sell. A sales forecast is not the basis of pricing strategies, business reports, or management techniques. 
SOURCE: MP:014 Forecast sales for marketing plan
SOURCE: Metcalf, T. (2018, April 5). Top 10 reasons why sales forecasting is important. Retrieved October 3,
2023, from https://bizfluent.com/top-10-reasons-why-sales-forecasting-is-important.html 

98. An important step in the process of developing a marketing plan involves selecting the 
A. distribution agent.
B. sales force.
C. target market.
D. research strategy.

98. C
Target market. The target market is the group of consumers on whom the business focuses its marketing efforts. An important part of developing a marketing plan involves selecting the target market because the purpose of the marketing plan is to establish procedures or strategies for attracting those target customers. A business needs to know which customers it is trying to reach in order to make decisions about how to reach them. Businesses often conduct research in order to gather important information before starting to develop a marketing plan. Once a marketing plan has been developed, a business might select a distribution agent and a sales force. 
SOURCE: MP:018 Develop marketing plan
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2023, May 22). Target market: Definition, purpose, examples, market
segments. Retrieved October 3, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/t/target-market.asp 

59. While watching a travel show on TV, Alex saw an advertisement for a tropical resort. This is an example of __________ segmentation. 
A. geographic
B. psychographic
C. demographic
D. behavioral

59. B
Psychographic. Psychographic segmentation is based on the lifestyles and personalities of customers. Because Alex demonstrated an interest in a travel show, marketers can deduce that traveling is a part of his lifestyle. Thus, Alex would be an appropriate market for a tropical resort. Behavioral segmentation occurs when customers are grouped based on what they are looking for in a product and why they buy the product. Demographic segmentation divides the market on the basis of physical and social characteristics. Geographic segmentation groups customers based on where they are located. 
SOURCE: MP:003 Explain the concept of market and market identification
SOURCE: LAP-MP-003—Have We Met? (Market Identification)

34. Dividing hospitality and tourism customers by travel frequency and spending habits is an example of which type of market segmentation? 
A. Behavioral segmentation
B. Demographic segmentation
C. Psychographic segmentation
D. Geographic segmentation

34. A
Behavioral segmentation. Behavioral segmentation involves dividing customers by their actions and behaviors, such as travel frequency and spending habits. Psychographic segmentation focuses on personality traits, lifestyle, and interests. Geographic segmentation divides customers by location. Demographic segmentation separates customers by factors like age, gender, and income. 
SOURCE: MP:035 Identify ways to segment hospitality and tourism markets
SOURCE: Sherwood, P. (2023, March 22). Market segmentation in tourism (What it is & why it matters).
Retrieved November 14, 2023, from https://www.gravitatedesign.com/blog/tourism-marketsegmentation-101/ 

83. Which of the following statements about target markets is true: 
A. They help marketers meet customers’ needs more effectively.
B. Customers are targeted in the industrial market.
C. They group customers based on their differences.
D. The same person cannot be in more than one target market.

83. A
They help marketers meet customers’ needs more effectively. A target market is the particular group of customers a business seeks to attract. Marketers group customers by their similarities and pinpoint the particular group of customers that they seek to attract, allowing their business to meet customer needs effectively. Customers are targeted in the consumer market, whereas businesses are targeted in the industrial market. Because marketers target both customers and businesses for many reasons, the same person or business can be included in more than one target market. 
SOURCE: MP:003 Explain the concept of market and market identification
SOURCE: LAP-MP-003—Have We Met? (Market Identification)

46. The question "Are you traveling for business or pleasure?" is an example of a __________ segmentation inquiry. 
A. demographic
B. psychographic
C. choreographic
D. geographic

46. B
Psychographic. Psychographic segmentation is the division of a market on the basis of customers' personalities and lifestyles, including income, interests, and activities. People traveling for business can have vastly different price points and planned activities than those traveling for pleasure, so asking whether they are traveling for business or pleasure gives employees a better sense of their psychographic needs. Geographic segmentation is the division of a market on the basis of where customers are located. Demographic segmentation is the division of a market on the basis of its physical and social characteristics. Choreographic refers to dancing and is not a type of segmentation. 
SOURCE: MP:035 Identify ways to segment hospitality and tourism markets
SOURCE: SurveyMonkey. (1999-2023). What is psychographic segmentation? Retrieved September 26, 2023,
from https://www.surveymonkey.com/market-research/resources/what-is-psychographicsegmentation/ 

32. Which of the following would be most appropriate for mass marketing: 
A. Diapers
B. Toothpaste
C. Winter coats
D. Toy trucks

32. B
Toothpaste. Mass marketing is designing products and directing marketing activities to appeal to the whole market. Of the items listed, toothpaste is the most likely to be marketed in this manner because it appeals to and is used by many types of consumers. The market for diapers would be limited to those with babies and toddlers. The market for toy trucks would be limited to children and teens. The market for winter coats would be limited to individuals who live and work in cold climates. 
SOURCE: MP:003 Explain the concept of market and market identification
SOURCE: LAP-MP-003—Have We Met? (Market Identification)

69. Which of the following is an example of a possible opportunity that a business might identify as a result of conducting a situational analysis: 
A. Increases in operating expenses
B. Customers changing their habits
C. Suppliers raising their prices
D. Declines in economic conditions

69. B
Customers changing their habits. The changing nature of the marketing environment brings with it many opportunities for businesses. One of the purposes of conducting a situational analysis is to identify possible opportunities in the business environment. An example of a possible opportunity is a change in customers' habits. If an analysis indicates that customers are buying more of one type of product and that the trend will continue, a business can take advantage of the change by providing that type of product. However, to be prepared to take advantage of such opportunities, a business first must analyze the environment to determine exactly what those opportunities are. A situational analysis also indicates possible threats to the business. Examples of threats include suppliers raising their prices and a decline in economic conditions. Increases in operating expenses is an internal problem. 
SOURCE: MP:008 Explain the role of situation analysis in the marketing planning process
SOURCE: Lorette, K. (2019, February 12). A situational analysis of a strategic marketing plan. Retrieved
August 2, 2023, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/situational-analysis-strategic-marketing-plan1474.html 

79. Which of the following things might a marketer do to achieve the company's pricing objective of raising the product's value in the customer's eyes: 
A. Lower the product's price
B. Decide how to package the product
C. Ask a higher price for the product
D. Order more of the product

79. C
Ask a higher price for the product. Marketers can raise a product's value in the customer's eyes by raising the price. Lowering the product's price would not necessarily raise the product's value. Deciding how to package the product and ordering more of the product are not tasks in the pricing element. 
SOURCE: MP:001 Explain the concept of marketing strategies
SOURCE: LAP-MP-001—Pick the Mix (Nature of Marketing Strategies)
MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 19 

95. Which of the following is an advantage of quantitative sales forecasting: 
A. It's reliable.
B. It's cheap.
C. It provides a “human touch.”
D. It's perfect for new businesses.

95. A
It's reliable. Quantitative sales forecasting is advantageous because it's reliable—based on hard facts and numerical data. However, it isn't cheap to undertake quantitative sales forecasting. Quantitative sales forecasting doesn't provide the "human touch" that qualitative forecasting does, and it's not ideal for new businesses, since they don't have a lot of information to go on. 
SOURCE: MP:013 Explain the nature of sales forecasts
SOURCE: LAP-MP-013—Futurecast (The Nature of Sales Forecasts)

7. Which of the following is an external factor that a business cannot control: 
A. Price changes
B. Inventory changes
C. Population changes
D. Distribution changes

7. C
Population changes. A business is unable to control the ways in which a population changes and adapts over time. Inventory, price, and distribution are all internal factors that are at least partially under a business’s control. 
SOURCE: MP:013 Explain the nature of sales forecasts
SOURCE: LAP-MP-013—Futurecast (The Nature of Sales Forecasts)

12. Which of the following is the first step of the marketing planning process: 
A. Writing the plan and strategy
B. Implementing and managing your plan
C. Assessing your current situation
D. Setting objectives and goals

12. D
Setting objectives and goals. The marketing planning process serves as a company road map for selecting a specific target market and then satisfying customers in that segment. The first step of the marketing planning process is to set objectives and goals. This is followed by assessing your current situation, writing the plan and strategy, and implementing and managing your plan. 
SOURCE: MP:006 Explain the nature of marketing planning
SOURCE: Udemy. (2020, February). The marketing planning process: Four steps to success. Retrieved
September 19, 2023, from https://blog.udemy.com/marketing-planning-process 

52. An organization's mission statement is typically included in what section of a marketing plan? 
A. Desired target market
B. Executive summary
C. Financial plans
D. Situational analysis

52. B
Executive summary. A marketing plan is a set of procedures or strategies for attracting the target customer to a business. Most marketing plans typically include the following sections: executive summary, situational analysis, desired target market, marketing objectives, marketing strategies and programs, financial plans, performance and implementation, and appendix. The executive summary serves as an introduction, as it allows the reader to understand the purpose of the marketing plan. It should include background information about the organization, its mission statement, a brief introduction to the organization’s management team or the marketing team, and a brief overview of the plan’s highlights and objectives. An organization's mission statement is not included in the situational analysis, desired target market, or financial plans of a marketing plan. 
SOURCE: MP:007 Explain the nature of marketing plans
SOURCE: LAP-MP-007—A Winning Plan (Nature of Marketing Plans)

57. Which of the following statements best represents the customers that make up a market: 
A. They need but do not want the good or service.
B. They don't have the resources to make a purchase.
C. They must be financially able and willing to spend.
D. They have fulfilled their desires.

57. C
They must be financially able and willing to spend. A market is a customer or a potential customer who has an unfulfilled desire and is financially able and willing to satisfy that desire. People who have unfulfilled—not fulfilled—desires make up a market. People who make up a market are those who want a good or service and have the resources, or money, to make a purchase. 
SOURCE: MP:003 Explain the concept of market and market identification
SOURCE: LAP-MP-003—Have We Met? (Market Identification)

69. Which of the following statements about a situation analysis is true: 
A. It allows a business to assess its competitors.
B. It helps with administering employee benefits.
C. It evaluates threats rather than opportunities.
D. It examines internal factors rather than external factors.

69. A
It allows a business to assess its competitors. A situation analysis is a determination of a firm’s current business situation and the direction in which the business is headed. It involves exploratory research conducted with the purpose of providing a more complete understanding of a problem and the total business environment in which it exists. A situation analysis is used to analyze both internal and external factors, and it allows businesses to use market research to evaluate project growth, define their potential customers, and assess their competition. A situation analyzes a business's strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats. Administering employee benefits is a task related to human resources, not a situation analysis. 
SOURCE: MP:008 Explain the role of situation analysis in the marketing planning process
SOURCE: Indeed. (2022, July 22). How to complete a situational analysis (with definition and elements).
Retrieved September 19, 2023, from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/careerdevelopment/situational-analysis 

6. The owner of a business in a small town is considering moving to a nearby larger city but is concerned that current customers will not travel the additional 50 miles. What marketing element is involved in this situation? 
A. Promotion
B. Place
C. Product
D. Price

6. B
Place. The place, or distribution, element of marketing involves moving, storing, locating, and/or transferring ownership of goods and services. Making products available where customers are willing to go is also a concern of place. Price involves determining and adjusting prices to maximize return and meet customers' perceptions of value. Product refers to what goods, services, or ideas will be offered to customers. Promotion refers to the various strategies that marketers use to communicate information about goods, services, images, and/or ideas to achieve a desired outcome. 
SOURCE: MP:001 Explain the concept of marketing strategies
SOURCE: LAP-MP-001--Pick the Mix (Nature of Marketing Strategies)

37. When examining a market, marketers primarily notice its 
A. records.
B. merchants.
C. categories.
D. leaders.

37. C
Categories. Marketers look at markets to divide them into groups or categories according to what customers have in common. Merchants, market leaders, and records have little to do with finding categories. 
SOURCE: MP:003 Explain the concept of market and market identification
SOURCE: LAP-MP-003--Have We Met? (Market Identification)

39. Which of the following is a key subject that should be covered by a situation analysis: 
A. Collaborators
B. Marketing objectives
C. Product strategy
D. Financial plans

39. A
Collaborators. The situation analysis should look at the company, the customers, the competitors, the collaborators, and the climate (external factors). These areas are sometimes known as the 5 C's. Collaborators include any partnerships or relationships that a company has. Marketing objectives and financial plans have their own respective sections of the marketing plan. Product strategy falls under the marketing strategies and programs section of the marketing plan. 
SOURCE: MP:007 Explain the nature of marketing plans
SOURCE: LAP-MP-007--A Winning Plan (Nature of Marketing Plans)

49. Intermediate-range sales forecasts are used to 
A. plan yearly budgets.
B. aid in scheduling.
C. make strategic plans.
D. aid in staffing.

49. A
Plan yearly budgets. Intermediate-range sales forecasts cover periods of three months to two years. They are used to plan budgets and make determinations regarding capital expenditures. Long-range sales forecasts are used in strategic planning. Short-range sales forecasts are used to aid in day-to-day decision-making regarding scheduling, staffing, inventory, etc. 
SOURCE: MP:013 Explain the nature of sales forecasts
SOURCE: LAP-MP-013--Futurecast (The Nature of Sales Forecasts)

