5. Arnie needs to buy printer toner and copy paper from the company's office-supply vendor. What is the first step that Arnie should take? 
A. Prepare a purchase order
B. Complete an expense form
C. Request an invoice
D. Submit a receipt

5. A
Prepare a purchase order. Arnie needs to prepare a purchase order, which is the form that a business (buyer) fills out to order goods from a vendor (seller). The purchase order typically contains information such as the item's description, part number, quantity, price, and the company's shipping and billing addresses. An invoice is an itemized statement of money owed for a good or service and is generated by the vendor (seller). A receipt is an acknowledgment of the sale and transfer of goods and services, and is typically provided by the seller to the buyer in consumer retail transactions. Employees complete expense forms so their employers can reimburse them for business-related out-of-pocket expenses. 
SOURCE: OP:016 Place orders/reorders
SOURCE: Kissflow. (2023, August 5). What's the difference between purchase order and invoice? Retrieved
August 10, 2023, from https://kissflow.com/procurement/purchase-order/purchase-order-vs-invoice/ 

16. What is the first step to monitoring projects? 
A. Gathering data using appropriate tools
B. Making changes and corrections
C. Deciding what to monitor and who will monitor it
D. Communicating changes to stakeholders

16. C
Deciding what to monitor and who will monitor it. The first step of monitoring a project and taking corrective actions is to decide what to monitor and who will monitor it. Many different aspects of a project can be monitored depending on your goals and objectives. Gathering data using appropriate tools, communicating changes to stakeholders, and making changes and corrections are steps that follow deciding what to monitor and who will monitor it. 
SOURCE: OP:520 Monitor projects and take corrective actions
SOURCE: LAP-OP-520—Check Your (Project) Pulse (Monitoring Projects and Taking Corrective Actions)

17. Bill, Tara, and Lauren work for a small manufacturing firm that produces designer jeans. Bill is the fabric buyer; Tara buys the small items needed to construct the jeans; and Lauren sews the jeans. What does Lauren need from Bill and Tara to do her job? 
A. Thread, buttons, and zippers from Tara and denim from Bill
B. Zippers, buttons and snaps from Tara and corduroy from Bill
C. Buttons, thread, and denim from Bill and zippers from Tara
D. Corduroy from Tara and zippers, snaps, and pins from Bill

17. A
Thread, buttons, and zippers from Tara and denim from Bill. Work efforts are often interdependent—workers rely on each other to accomplish a task or goal. In many situations, specific people are responsible for providing specific elements to complete a project or achieve a goal. In the example, Lauren needs several items from Bill and Tara so that she can perform her job of sewing the jeans. Because Bill is the fabric buyer, he is responsible for buying the denim so Lauren can make the jeans. Tara buys the small items needed to make the jeans, so she is responsible for obtaining items such as thread, buttons, zippers, snaps, and pins. Corduroy is a different type of fabric used to make various types of apparel items. 
SOURCE: OP:230 Coordinate work with that of team members
SOURCE: Reh, F.J. (2019, October 31). Basic project management 101. Retrieved August 10, 2023, from
https://www.thebalancemoney.com/project-management-101-2275338 

26. Which of the following is one way that workplace accidents are costly to employees: 
A. Lost sales
B. Lost production
C. Lost profits
D. Lost income

26. D
Lost income. Workplace accidents are costly to both employees and employers. Some of the ways that accidents are costly to employees include missing work and losing income. Lost production, lost sales, and lost profits are some of the ways that accidents are costly to employers. 
SOURCE: OP:009 Explain procedures for handling accidents
SOURCE: U.S. Department of Labor. (n.d.). Business case for safety and health. Retrieved August 9, 2023,
from https://www.osha.gov/businesscase 

30. When a business has too much inventory on hand for an extended period of time, what type of business cost increases? 
A. Holding
B. Stockout
C. Production
D. Maintenance

30. A
Holding. The money it takes to keep inventory in stock is called holding cost. Holding costs include storage space, taxes, and insurance. By minimizing its holding costs, a business is taking steps to reduce its overall operating costs. Maintenance costs are expenses associated with the upkeep of the business's facility and equipment. Production costs are expenses associated with the creation of goods and services. Stockout costs are associated with running out of needed inventory and are considered in terms of lost money and sales, lost productivity, and lost customer satisfaction. 
SOURCE: OP:189 Explain the nature of operations
SOURCE: LAP-OP-189—Smooth Operations (Nature of Operations)

40. Purchasing specialists who buy items such as furniture, supplies, and uniforms for their own company are buying for 
A. transformation.
B. retail.
C. resale.
D. business use.

40. D
Business use. Purchasing specialists who buy items such as furniture, supplies, and uniforms for their own company to use are buying for business use. When a business purchases items for resale, it buys things to sell to other businesses or consumers. Retailers buy items for resale. Purchasing specialists who buy items for transformation purchase raw materials and components that will be converted into finished products through some type of production process. 
SOURCE: OP:015 Explain the nature and scope of purchasing
SOURCE: LAP-OP-015—Buy Right (Purchasing)
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 10 

43. So that the company can determine when it needs to order more pencils, Kendra subtracts one box of pencils on a tracking sheet after she takes the box from the office supply cabinet. This is an example of 
A. perpetual inventory.
B. inventory shrinkage.
C. inventory keeping.
D. physical inventory.

43. A
Perpetual inventory. Perpetual inventory is a record of inventory information that is continuously updated. Updates can be done manually or by computer. Businesses often track their office supplies to make sure that they have enough items on hand to run smoothly. Inventory shrinkage is a loss of inventory due to shoplifting, employee theft, breakage, misplacement, or poor recordkeeping. Physical inventory is the process of counting each item that is available for use. Inventory keeping is a fictitious term. 
SOURCE: OP:031 Maintain inventory of supplies
SOURCE: Schwarz, L. (2022, July 18). The definitive guide to perpetual inventory. Retrieved August 10, 2023,
from https://www.netsuite.com/portal/resource/articles/inventory-management/what-is-perpetualinventory.shtml 

45. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) is responsible for 
A. insisting that businesses maintain safe, hazard-free workplaces.
B. complying with a business's safety rules.
C. reporting job-related injuries or illnesses to supervisors.
D. seeking medical attention for injured employees.

45. A
Insisting that businesses maintain safe, hazard-free workplaces. OSHA, a federal government agency, writes and enforces safety standards for all businesses. Under OSHA, both employers and employees have responsibilities to keep the work environment free of hazards. OSHA informs employers of the rules and safety practices that employees need to follow. Employees are responsible for reporting job-related injuries or illnesses to their supervisors, seeking medical attention as needed, and complying with their business's safety rules. 
SOURCE: OP:007 Follow safety precautions
SOURCE: United States Department of Labor. (n.d.). About OSHA. Retrieved August 9, 2023, from
https://www.osha.gov/aboutosha BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 11 

50. The Whitmore Company uses an assembly line to produce large quantities of in-line skates. What kind of production process is this? 
A. Mass production
B. Custom production
C. Technological production
D. Intermittent production

50. A
Mass production. Mass production is the production of a few products in large quantities. It often involves the use of an assembly line in which each worker has a specific job to do. Custom production involves making a single product or a few units of a specific product at a time. Intermittent production is used to make a certain number of specific products. Any of these production processes could be considered technological in nature, depending upon the way in which they are carried out; but they are not referred to as technological production. 
SOURCE: OP:017 Explain the concept of production
SOURCE: LAP-OP-017—Can You Make It? (Nature of Production)
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 12 

55. Which of the following situations may represent a risk to the business: 
A. A regular customer brings a new neighbor to shop at the business.
B. A new customer's check is for an amount larger than the purchase total.
C. A new customer with a check provides a piece of photo identification.
D. A regular customer is impatient when the cashier takes a phone order.

55. B
A new customer's check is for an amount larger than the purchase total. The customer's check may be valid, or it may be a bad check because there is not enough money in the customer's account to honor the check. If the business accepts a bad check, the bank will not honor the check, and the business will lose not only the value of the customer's purchase but the additional cash as well. To protect themselves, some businesses require checks for more than the purchase total to be approved by a manager. A regular customer who brings in a new neighbor does not represent a risk to the business. Most customers are rightfully impatient when they are kept waiting by phone transactions. Photo identification is considered the most acceptable form because it carries both a picture and a signature. 
SOURCE: OP:013 Explain routine security precautions
SOURCE: Connecticut Department of Banking. (2023). Checks and related issues. Retrieved August 10, 2023,
from https://portal.ct.gov/DOB/Consumer/Consumer-Education/Checks-and-Related-Issues BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 13 

71. When Josh arrived at work this morning, he saw that the company safe was open, the office was in disarray, and his laptop computer was missing. Josh should immediately report the situation to the local 
A. insurance provider.
B. health organization.
C. police department.
D. fire department.

71. C
Police department. To take appropriate action during an emergency, an employee must determine what the problem is. Because the safe was open, the office was in disarray, and a computer was missing, the business was probably robbed. In case the robber is still in the building, Josh should leave the business immediately and seek a safe environment. Then, following company procedures, Josh should notify his supervisor or the local law enforcement authorities (police). Josh should call the fire department if a fire occurs. The local health department handles issues associated with health risks. The owner should file a claim with the business's insurance company after the robbery has been reported to the appropriate law-enforcement authorities. 
SOURCE: OP:010 Handle and report emergency situations
SOURCE: The Law Dictionary. (n.d.). Filing a police report for stolen property. Retrieved August 10, 2023, from
https://thelawdictionary.org/article/filing-a-police-report-for-stolen-property/ 

3. X-ray machines, surgical equipment, wheelchairs, and scrubs are all items that a hospital might buy for 
A. resale.
B. negotiations.
C. business use.
D. production.

3. C
Business use. A hospital is a business that purchases many goods and services for its own use rather than resale or transformation. Without the necessary equipment, furniture, medicine, and supplies, the hospital could not properly care for its patients. These items would not be purchased for production, negotiations, or resale. 
SOURCE: OP:015 Explain the nature and scope of purchasing
SOURCE: LAP-OP-015—Buy Right (Purchasing)

14. Which of the following documents officially authorizes a project to begin: 
A. Registration documents
B. Statement of work
C. Work breakdown structure
D. Project charter

14. D
Project charter. A project is officially authorized to begin by the project charter, an official document that contains the same information as a statement of work but serves as a more formal, external document. A work breakdown structure details the breakdown of the project’s workload into smaller parts. Registration documents are not common documents used in project management. 
SOURCE: OP:158 Explain the nature of project management
SOURCE: LAP-OP-158—Projected to Win (Nature of Project Management)

24. Which of the following outputs is an industrial good: 
A. A mixer purchased by a college student
B. A set of measuring cups purchased by a family
C. An oven purchased by a bakery owner
D. A roll of cookie dough purchased for home use

24. C
An oven purchased by a bakery owner. Industrial goods are used to make other products for resale or used in the day-to-day operations of a business. An oven purchased by a bakery owner is an output that is considered an industrial good. Consumer goods are ultimately purchased by consumers. A family’s set of measuring cups, a college student’s mixer, and a roll of cookie dough intended for home use are all examples of consumer goods. 
SOURCE: OP:017 Explain the concept of production
SOURCE: LAP-OP-017—Can You Make It? (Nature of Production)

25. What is a valid reason for evaluating project success? 
A. To reduce monthly expenditures
B. To conduct employee reviews
C. To identify needs for future projects
D. To bypass stakeholder feedback

25. C
To identify needs for future projects. After evaluating your project results, you might find that your project did not solve all of the problems that it intended to solve. In this case, you might need to start a new project to resolve the remaining issues. Evaluating a project's success is not intended as a means to bypass stakeholder feedback. In fact, sharing lessons learned with stakeholders is an important part of project evaluation. Evaluating project success does not necessarily mean that monthly expenses will be reduced. Employee evaluations are not an integral aspect of evaluating project success. 
SOURCE: OP:521 Evaluate project success
SOURCE: LAP-OP-521— Making the Grade (Evaluating Project Success)
2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 6 

28. While making a schedule for their team, a project manager wants to determine the order in which work will be completed and connect the activities to one another. What project planning tool will help them do this best? 
A. Focus group
B. To-do list
C. Flow chart
D. Survey

28. C
Flow chart. A flow chart is used to analyze a sequence of events and uncover its relationships. Flow charts help you schedule your project, figure out the order of work that you’ll need to complete, connect activities to one another, and help you visualize the project work. A survey is a marketing research method used to gather useful data and information from individuals; it involves asking consumers questions to learn their opinions and the reasons behind those opinions. A focus group is a group formed to discuss a specific topic. A to-do list is a list of activities that an individual plans to accomplish during a certain period of time. A to-do list may be helpful to the project manager, but it won't help them connect activities to one another. 
SOURCE: OP:519 Plan project
SOURCE: LAP-OP-519—Plan On It! (Planning Projects)

29. To help you determine which person should be responsible for what project task, it is recommended that you use a 
A. community sponsor.
B. bottom-up estimation.
C. skills assessment.
D. social media platform.

29. C
Skills assessment. How do you choose who will do what in a project? A skills assessment helps you figure out what skills and experiences would allow someone to be successful for each task. For example, purchasing the materials requires someone with strong financial literacy, whereas making drawings of the set design requires creativity and artistic talent. Bottom-up estimation, a social media platform, and a community sponsor will not help you determine which person should be responsible for what project task. 
SOURCE: OP:003 Identify resources needed for project
SOURCE: LAP-OP-003—Get What You Need (Identifying Project Resources)
2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 7 

40. A luxury hotel client decides to expand the design of a new penthouse suite from 1,200 square feet to 2,500 square feet. This adjustment would fall under what component of the project plan? 
A. Change-management plan
B. Risk-management plan
C. Communications plan
D. Quality-management plan

40. A
Change-management plan. The change-management plan addresses what steps will be taken when clients’ needs shift or unforeseen circumstances occur. The risk-management plan identifies potential risks and spells out how to avoid them or limit their impact. The communications plan allows project managers to map out the flow of communication before a project even begins. The quality-management plan covers the dress of excellence of the deliverables and the project itself. 
SOURCE: OP:001 Develop project plan
SOURCE: LAP-OP-001—Chart Your Course (Developing a Project Plan)

52. Raoul handles exchanges according to company policy, watches for counterfeit bills, and gives discounts only when appropriate. He is helping control business expenses by 
A. treating customers in a professional manner.
B. managing sales transactions with accuracy.
C. respecting company property.
D. using expense accounts responsibly.

52. B
Managing sales transactions with accuracy. Employees who properly manage sales transactions have excellent opportunities to save the business money. They can do this by handling exchanges according to company policy, watching for counterfeit bills, and giving discounts only when appropriate. While respecting company property, treating customers in a professional manner, and using expense accounts responsibly are all ways employees can control business expenses, they are not being demonstrated in this example. 
SOURCE: OP:025 Explain employee's role in expense control
SOURCE: LAP-OP-025—Buck Busters (Employee Role in Expense Control)
2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 12 

59. A manufacturer has a fixed cost for its employees’ wages, but when it decides to produce a greater number of products this month, its employees work more hours and earn overtime—resulting in variable overtime pay. This is an example of 
A. gross profit.
B. price markups.
C. mixed costs.
D. an economy of scale.

59. C
Mixed costs. Some operating costs may be considered partially variable and partially fixed. These are known as semi-variable costs (sometimes called semi-fixed costs or mixed costs). Semi-variable costs are fixed until the company reaches a certain level of production; after that, they become variable. For example, a manufacturer has a fixed cost for its employees’ wages, but when it decides to produce a greater number of products this month, its employees work more hours and earn overtime. The employees’ base wages are still fixed, but the cost of paying this overtime is variable, depending on how many extra hours are worked. This is not an example of price markups, gross profit, or an economy of scale. 
SOURCE: OP:024 Explain the nature of overhead/operating costs
SOURCE: LAP-OP-024—Watch Your (Over) Head (Overhead/Operating Costs)

65. Which of the following quality-control tools is most useful for identifying many potential causes of a problem and sorting them into specific categories, especially when there is very little “hard” information to go on: 
A. Histogram
B. Check sheet
C. House of quality matrix
D. Fishbone diagram

65. D
Fishbone diagram. A fishbone diagram, also called a cause-and-effect diagram or an Ishikawa diagram, is a way to identify many potential causes of a problem and sort them into useful categories. It is especially useful in group settings or when there is little “hard” information to go on. A check sheet, or tally sheet, is simply a form for collecting data on the spot. A histogram is a graph with touching bars that show the distribution of a variable and cannot be rearranged; it is used to visually represent information. A house of quality matrix is used during the production-planning process to determine if a product meets customer needs. While they are important tools, check sheets, histograms, and house of quality matrices would not be most useful in this scenario. 
SOURCE: OP:163 Identify quality-control measures
SOURCE: LAP-OP-163—Take Control (Quality-Control Measures)

70. Hayes is a purchasing specialist, and her brother works for a potential supplier. Buying equipment from her brother’s company may be a(n) 
A. environmental violation.
B. misuse of company property.
C. safety breach.
D. conflict of interest.

70. D
Conflict of interest. Hayes is faced with a conflict of interest when it comes to the question of purchasing equipment from her brother’s company because she cannot make a truly impartial, unbiased decision. This situation does not illustrate a misuse of company property, an environmental violation, or a safety breach. 
SOURCE: OP:190 Discuss the role of ethics in operations
SOURCE: LAP-OP-190—Above Board (Ethics in Operations)

72. The leaders of a project team abide by the same set of strong moral principles, no matter the pressure or situation. The project leaders are demonstrating 
A. integrity.
B. accountability.
C. respect.
D. quality.

72. A
Integrity. Integrity means adhering to an established set of personal ethics and sound moral principles; acting with honesty in all situations. Respect involves honoring the rights, freedoms, views, and property of others. Accountability means accepting responsibility for one’s decisions. Quality is a measure of project excellence. While respect, accountability, and quality are important, the project leaders are not necessarily demonstrating these principles in this example. 
SOURCE: OP:675 Describe the role of ethics in project management
SOURCE: LAP-OP-675—Projects With Principles (Ethics in Project Management)

96. A water bottle manufacturer checks one bottle from every shipment to ensure the quality of its product. This process is known as quality 
A. inspection.
B. assurance.
C. logistics.
D. delivery.

96. A
Inspection. Checking a sample item for defects after it has already been produced is part of the quality inspection process. Quality assurance is a process businesses use to prevent defective products from being created, not just to eliminate or correct them after they’ve already been produced. Quality delivery and quality logistics are not typical terms used in operations or quality control. 
SOURCE: OP:189 Explain the nature of operations
SOURCE: LAP-OP-189—Smooth Operations (Nature of Operations)

2. Why is it important for businesses to follow local health ordinances? 
A. To lower the need for medical care facilities
B. To protect the natural environment
C. To reduce the risk of widespread illness
D. To prevent accidents in the workplace

2. C
To reduce the risk of widespread illness. The purpose of health regulations is to protect the population from widespread illnesses. Depending on the industry or business type, most localities require businesses to follow certain rules to reduce the risk of illness. For example, various levels of government are likely to require that restaurants handle, store, and cook foods in certain ways to prevent illnesses such as e coli. Safety regulations intend to reduce the risk of accidents. The purpose of environmental regulations is to protect the natural environment from such issues as air pollution and waste management. Following health ordinances does not lower a community's need for medical care facilities. 
SOURCE: OP:004 Describe health and safety regulations in business
SOURCE: Bhayani, T. (2023, April 25). The importance of staying up-to-date on local laws with your digital
employee handbook. Retrieved October 3, 2023, from https://blog.airmason.com/the-importance-ofstaying-up-to-date-on-local-laws-with-your-digital-employee-handbook 

17. What is needed to effectively handle situations such as fire, injury, bomb threats, and robbery that might occur on the business's property? 
A. An operating strategy
B. A surveillance system
C. An evacuation map
D. An emergency plan

17. D
An emergency plan. Comprehensive emergency plans contain policies and procedures for many types of situations that the business might experience. The plan might address issues such as evacuation plans for fire, bomb threats, and weather-related incidents. The emergency plan might include policies for handling injuries, illnesses, and robberies. The business needs to ensure that employees know what to do in these situations by providing ongoing training. 
SOURCE: OP:010 Handle and report emergency situations
SOURCE: United States Department of Labor. (n.d.). Evacuation plans and procedures etool. Retrieved October 3,
2023, from https://www.osha.gov/etools/evacuation-plans-procedures 

20. If a manager is focused on improving sales revenue, they are likely to keep this goal in mind when planning an upcoming marketing campaign. This is an example of how 
A. priorities impact the way a project is planned.
B. budget controls how a project is planned.
C. increased sales are a benefit of project planning.
D. project planning is not a good use of time.

20. A
Priorities impact the way a project is planned. The manager in this example is prioritizing sales revenue. As a result, this focus impacts their planning of an upcoming marketing campaign. This is not an example of how budget controls how a project is planning, how increased sales are a benefit of project planning, or how project planning is not a good use of time. 
SOURCE: OP:519 Plan project
SOURCE: LAP-OP-519—Plan On It! (Planning Projects)

30. The operations function consists mainly of activities that are performed on a __________ basis. 
A. daily
B. weekly
C. monthly
D. yearly

30. A
Daily. The operations function consists mainly of activities that are performed on a daily basis. Operations is the day-to-day activities that allow a business to keep doing what it needs to do—producing and providing goods and services for its customers. While some operations activities may be performed weekly, monthly, or yearly, most operations activities happen daily. 
SOURCE: OP:189 Explain the nature of operations
SOURCE: LAP-OP-189—Smooth Operations (Nature of Operations)

53. Think about the last time you ate an apple. That apple passed through several hands before it reached your lunch bag. First, the apple was grown by a farmer, who sold it to a wholesaler or distributor, who then sold it to a retail store. Finally, the apple was bought by you or your parents—the final consumers. The apple's journey from farm to table is an example of 
A. supply chain.
B. deflation.
C. marketing.
D. manufacturing.

53. A
Supply chain. A supply chain is a complete network of producers, distributors, and retailers that work together to get a product into the hands of consumers. In this example, the apple journeyed from farmer, to distributor, to retailer, to consumer. This is an example of a supply chain in action—not deflation, manufacturing, or marketing. Deflation is a steady decline in the general price levels of consumer goods and services over a period of time. Manufacturing is the process of changing raw materials so that they will be useful to consumers. Marketing is an organizational function and a set of processes for creating, communicating, and delivering value to customers. 
SOURCE: OP:443 Explain the concept of supply chain
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2023, March 28). The supply chain: From raw materials to order fulfillment. Retrieved
October 3, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/s/supplychain.asp 

66. How do you monitor the quality of your project? 
A. Pay attention to potential issues.
B. Ensure that your team members are on task.
C. Examine the budget.
D. Compare your project work to preset standards.

66. D
Compare your project work to preset standards. When planning your project, you likely developed quality standards to measure whether your project is reaching high levels of excellence. You can monitor project quality by comparing work to these quality standards. Examining the budget, ensuring team members are on task, and paying attention to potential issues are not ways to monitor project quality. 
SOURCE: OP:520 Monitor projects and take corrective actions
SOURCE: LAP-OP-520—Check Your (Project) Pulse (Monitoring Projects and Taking Corrective Actions)

76. Purchasing's ultimate goal and purpose is always to obtain the right goods and services from the right suppliers at the right price. To reach this goal, purchasing specialists must be sure to 
A. purchase as much as possible when goods are needed.
B. select the supplier with the lowest bid.
C. get the best price from suppliers, even if it damages relationships.
D. locate backup sources of goods and services.

76. D
Locate backup sources of goods and services. It's important for purchasing specialists to be sure they can get the goods and services they need when they need them. It's good to have backup sources because if a purchasing specialist doesn't do their job correctly or get the items or services that the business needs, then the business cannot produce its finished good or service. That could lead the business to lose money or maybe even close. A purchasing specialist doesn't necessarily want to purchase as much as they possibly can; instead, they should purchase in amounts that make sense economically. Getting a good price is important, but a purchasing specialist does not want to do so at the expense of their relationship with the supplier. Although some companies require purchasing specialists to always choose the lowest bidder, buyers are often permitted to select the bidder with the best overall terms, including quality and quantity, even if that supplier's price isn't the lowest. 
SOURCE: OP:015 Explain the nature and scope of purchasing
SOURCE: LAP-OP-015—Buy Right (Purchasing)

81. Why is production important to a business? 
A. It provides the business with material resources.
B. It converts certain outputs into inputs.
C. It creates goods or services for the business to sell.
D. It manages the finances of the business.

81. C
It creates goods or services for the business to sell. Without products to sell, businesses cannot continue to exist. Production is the process or activity of producing goods or services wanted by consumers. Production combines inputs to produce outputs. In other words, production combines the material and human resources obtained by the business to make products. Finance is not a function of production. 
SOURCE: OP:017 Explain the concept of production
SOURCE: LAP-OP-017—Can You Make It? (Nature of Production)

88. Allan frequently uses his work computer to check personal email, go on social media, and play games during work hours—even though his company has a policy against using work computers for personal entertainment. When employees like Allan violate technology agreements, it can lead to 
A. increased efficiency.
B. improved morale.
C. decreased procrastination.
D. lost productivity.

88. D
Lost productivity. When employees use business equipment for personal reasons, they are usually less productive and more likely to fall behind in their work. Violating technology agreements by using company devices for personal purposes does not necessarily lead to improved morale—and it usually leads to decreased efficiency and increased procrastination. 
SOURCE: OP:442 Comply with policies and procedures for use of property and equipment
SOURCE: Nelson, N. (2020, February 1). Policies for employee personal use of business equipment. Retrieved
October 3, 2023, from https://www.wolterskluwer.com/en/expert-insights/policies-for-employee-personaluse-of-business-equipment 

94. A business's cashiers and sales personnel should be trained to protect the business from dishonest customers who attempt to carry out 
A. embezzlement.
B. payroll fraud.
C. internal theft.
D. point-of-sale fraud.

94. D
Point-of-sale fraud. Point-of-sale fraud includes any illegal schemes involving credit cards, checks, or cash that cheat a business out of money. Some examples would be customers who try to pay for goods with stolen credit cards, forged checks, or altered bills. Payroll fraud is a form of internal theft carried out by employees of the business who alter the payroll records to steal money for themselves or others. Embezzlement is the theft of valuables that have been entrusted to one's care. 
SOURCE: OP:013 Explain routine security precautions
SOURCE: Infosys BPM (2023). PoS fraud challenges and solutions. Retrieved October 3, 2023, from
https://www.infosysbpm.com/blogs/bpm-analytics/solutions-to-pos-fraud-challenge.html 

98. While putting away her things in the employee break room, Beth laid her jacket over an electric space heater in use in the room. What kind of safety risk did Beth create? 
A. Electrical short
B. Housekeeping
C. Fire
D. Shock

98. C
Fire. If flammable materials come in contact with extreme heat, there is a danger of starting a fire. Electrical hazards such as a short can be caused by frayed electrical cords with exposed wires, overloaded electrical outlets, and electrical appliances that could come in contact with water. A shock can result from human contact with a live electrical circuit. Housekeeping hazards include poorly stacked boxes of merchandise, things left on the floor, and spilled liquids. 
SOURCE: OP:007 Follow safety precautions
SOURCE: eSafety. (2020, September 29). 5 workplace fire safety tips. Retrieved October 3, 2023,
from https://www.esafety.com/5-workplace-fire-safety-tips 

4. Belinda is reviewing departmental reports to determine why the business's outputs have been decreasing steadily over the last six weeks. Belinda is analyzing issues related to 
A. human resources.
B. finance.
C. production.
D. distribution.

4. C
Production. Business analysis is the process of investigating and evaluating a business issue, problem, process, or approach. Analysis helps the business determine if it is accomplishing its goals or if it needs to make adjustments so it can accomplish its goals. Businesses analyze many types of situations. Production is the process of producing goods and services. When the business detects production problems (e.g., output decreases), it needs to obtain data to find out why problems are occurring so it can take the appropriate steps to resolve the problem. Distribution is the business function of moving or transferring the ownership of goods or services from producers to consumers. Finance is the business function that involves the management of money. Human resources are the people who work to produce goods and services. 
SOURCE: OP:327 Discuss the nature of business analysis
SOURCE: Course Sidekick. (2023). Factors of production: Inputs and outputs. Retrieved August 4, 2023, from
https://www.coursesidekick.com/business/study-guides/baycollege-introbusiness/reading-resourcesinputs-and-outputs BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 2 

6. While opening a large box of office supplies, Kendall accidentally cut her finger with the box cutters she was using. Another employee, Jorge, was helping Kendall at the time and witnessed the accident. What is the first thing that Jorge should do? 
A. Fill out an accident report
B. Put the office supplies away
C. Call Kendall's doctor
D. Administer first aid

6. D
Administer first aid. If someone you are working with cuts or scratches themselves, the first thing that you should do is administer first aid. Jorge, for instance, should help Kendall treat her cut. If the injury is serious, you should also call the paramedics and have the worker taken to the hospital for medical treatment. It is not necessary to call the coworker's doctor. After the worker's injury has been treated, you will both need to fill out an accident report. If someone is injured, you should help them, not ignore them and continue with your work. 
SOURCE: OP:010 Handle and report emergency situations
SOURCE: Phalen Law. (2022, September 8). Workplace injury procedures for employees. Retrieved August 3,
2023, from https://phalenlawfirm.com/blog/workplace-injury-procedures-for-employees/ 

11. Supply chain network design improves service and reduces cost by aligning purchasing, production, warehousing, inventory, and 
A. marketing.
B. transportation.
C. the sales force.
D. promotion.

11. B
Transportation. Supply chain network design aligns purchasing, production, warehousing, inventory, and transportation. Supply chain network design does not incorporate marketing, promotion, or the sales force. 
SOURCE: OP:479 Describe supply chain networks
SOURCE: Chartered Institute for Procurement and Supply. (2023). What is supply chain network design?
Retrieved August 4, 2023, from https://www.cips.org/intelligence-hub/operationsmanagement/supply-chain-network-desig 

17. To maintain positive, ongoing relationships with vendors, a business should 
A. adopt an indifferent outlook.
B. develop complex contracts.
C. focus on its own interests.
D. embrace a team-oriented mindset.

17. D
Embrace a team-oriented mindset. To develop positive, long-term relationships with vendors, a business should be willing to collaborate with them and view the relationships as partnerships; this requires a team-oriented mindset. Developing overly complex contracts may cause friction with vendors. Being indifferent or focusing only on the business's interests may also cause friction, and neither are ways in which a business builds strong, long-term relationships with vendors. 
SOURCE: OP:241 Maintain vendor/supplier relationships
SOURCE: Planergy. (2023). 10 strategies for improving supplier relationship management (SRM). Retrieved
August 4, 2023, from https://planergy.com/blog/improve-supplier-relationship-management 

18. Online shipment tracking is one example of __________ affecting supply chain management. 
A. economic downturns
B. technology
C. globalization
D. production changes

18. B
Technology. Technology has led to significant changes in shipment tracking and has, therefore, affected supply chain management. Globalization, economic downturns, and production changes can also significantly affect supply chain management, but they do not relate directly to online shipment tracking. 
SOURCE: OP:478 Describe the impact of technology on supply chain management
SOURCE: Wisner, J.D., Tan, K.T., & Leong, G.K. (2019). Principles of supply chain management: A balanced
approach (5th ed.) [Lesson 1-3]. Boston, MA: Cengage Learning, Inc. 

23. Many countries have laws and regulations in place regarding workplace safety. In the United States, for example, businesses are required to keep their walkways and passageways free from obstruction and debris. This example best demonstrates how __________ affect(s) business __________. 
A. legal considerations; operations
B. operations; accessibility
C. government; financial planning
D. the law; marketing research

23. A
Legal considerations; operations. Many governments around the world create regulations that affect the everyday operations of all businesses by requiring or prohibiting certain actions. This example does not demonstrate how government affects business financial planning, how operations affect accessibility, or how the law affects marketing research. 
SOURCE: OP:339 Discuss legal considerations in operations
SOURCE: Stone, J. (n.d.). How OSHA regulations affect the hotel business. Retrieved August 4, 2023, from
https://smallbusiness.chron.com/osha-regulations-affect-hotel-business-67443.html 

31. The PVX automotive manufacturer keeps office supplies such as copy paper, pens, and notepads on hand at all times. These office supplies are part of the manufacturer's inventory of 
A. finished products.
B. raw materials.
C. work-in-process.
D. MRO goods.

31. D
MRO goods. MRO goods are maintenance, repair, and operating supplies such as office supplies, janitorial supplies, employee uniforms, and work gloves. While none of these supplies will be part of the company's finished products—automobiles—PVX uses these supplies on a regular basis to ensure that the manufacturing process runs smoothly. Raw materials are items in their natural state or condition, such as glass or steel. Workin-process consists of the car parts and components that are no longer raw materials but are not completely finished yet. Finished products are completed goods that are ready to be marketed to consumers. 
SOURCE: OP:336 Discuss types of inventory
SOURCE: Murray, M. (2019, November 15). Maintenance, repair, and operating supplies (MRO). Retrieved
August 4, 2023, from https://www.liveabout.com/maintenance-repair-and-operating-supplies-mro2221265 

33. Ethical stakeholder management includes 
A. reaching key deliverables.
B. communicating honestly and openly.
C. using money wisely.
D. defining quality standards.

33. B
Communicating honestly and openly. Stakeholder management involves overseeing the communications and expectations of all project stakeholders. Project team members need to check in with one another and with stakeholders throughout all phases of the project, disclosing issues and sharing ideas. Ethical communication includes being open, honest, and discerning when deciding what to share and how to say it. While defining quality standards, using money wisely, and reaching key deliverables are all ethical, they do not fall under stakeholder management. 
SOURCE: OP:675 Describe the role of ethics in project management
SOURCE: LAP-OP-675—Projects With Principles (Ethics in Project Management)

43. A company develops a new production process so employees can create products while seated. This requires the company to schedule overtime hours but complies with a law that prevents employees from standing for more than eight hours. The company has changed its manufacturing process in response to 
A. costly overtime.
B. regulations.
C. employee disabilities.
D. legal battles.

43. B
Regulations. The company's new process allows it to comply with regulations. A company does not seek to schedule overtime if it is costly. There is no indication that the company is responding to the impact of employee disabilities or legal battles. 
SOURCE: OP:476 Explain the causes of business process changes
SOURCE: Taylor, H. (2017, September 26). Factors that affect process design. Retrieved August 4, 2023, from
https://bizfluent.com/list-7444011-factors-affect-process-design.html 

47. Which of the following is an example of a standing order: 
A. A department store's assistant buyer places an order with a clothing manufacturer for winter coats without
providing specific styles, sizes, or colors. B. An electronics retailer places an order on July 15 for a popular smartphone upgrade that will be available on
December 1. C. The Dunder Mifflin Paper Company ships 12 cases of copy paper to the KMV Company on the third
Wednesday of every month. D. Mr. and Ms. McPherson place an order with a local carpenter for a handcrafted table in a non-standard size.

47. C
The Dunder Mifflin Paper Company ships 12 cases of copy paper to the KMV Company on the third Wednesday of every month. Standing orders involve sending products at set intervals. This type of purchase order is ideal for businesses that need the same amount of an item on a regular basis. The electronics retailer placed an advance order, which is a regular order that requests delivery at a future time—weeks or months before needing the items. Businesses often place advanced orders for new items when they anticipate a high demand for them. The assistant buyer placed a blanket order, which is an order that covers all or part of a retailer's seasonal requirements. Businesses typically place blanket orders several months before the season and do not contain detailed specifications or shipping dates. Mr. and Mrs. McPherson placed a special order, which is a request for a custom item that a vendor does not normally carry in stock. 
SOURCE: OP:250 Describe types of purchase orders
SOURCE: Lloyds Bank. (n.d.). What is a standing order? Retrieved August 4, 2023, from
https://www.lloydsbank.com/current-accounts/help-and-guidance/what-is-a-standing-order.html 

50. How does supply chain management increase customer satisfaction? 
A. Reduces the time it takes for goods to reach consumers
B. Integrates information throughout an organization
C. Improves cash flow
D. Enhances data quality

50. A
Reduces the time it takes for goods to reach consumers. Supply chain management reduces the time it takes for goods to reach consumers, which improves customer satisfaction. Integrating information throughout an organization, improving cash flow, and enhancing data quality do not directly increase customer satisfaction. 
SOURCE: OP:477 Explain the impact of supply chains on business performance
SOURCE: Flexe. (2019, September 26). 4 supply chain secrets to drive customer satisfaction. Retrieved August
4, 2023, from https://www.flexe.com/articles/4-supply-chain-secrets-to-drive-customer-satisfaction 

54. When an accident occurs at a place of business, employees should first try to 
A. find out how serious it is.
B. take the victim's pulse.
C. move the injured person.
D. call an ambulance.

54. A
Find out how serious it is. To know what needs to be done or how much help is needed, employees need to find out whether the accident victim's injuries are minor or life threatening. Taking the victim's pulse should be done by medical personnel. Depending on the seriousness of the injury, it may be necessary to call a doctor or an ambulance, but an injured person should not be moved. 
SOURCE: OP:009 Explain procedures for handling accidents
SOURCE: Weeklysafety.com. (2023). Steps to take if there's an injury or incident at work. Retrieved August 3,
2023, from https://weeklysafety.com/blog/what-to-do-when-a-workplace-incident-happens BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 13 

65. Because the ILM Manufacturing Company orders large amounts of bolts and washers, the company's buyer asks its parts vendor for an additional 5% off the invoice total. This is an example of a business negotiating 
A. delivery terms.
B. a cash rebate.
C. a quantity discount.
D. service terms.

65. C
A quantity discount. Businesses negotiate many terms when establishing and maintaining relationships with vendors. Often, a business may negotiate a quantity discount, which is a deduction from the seller's (vendor's) price for purchasing large volumes or dollar amounts of goods. Delivery terms address the manner in which the business will receive the product (e.g., delivery charges, transportation mode). Service terms address issues such as warranties, service calls, service fees, etc. A rebate is a return of part of the price that a customer pays for a product. 
SOURCE: OP:337 Negotiate terms with vendors in business
SOURCE: Liberto, D. (2021, March 30). Quantity discount: Definition, purpose, pros & cons. Retrieved August
4, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/q/quantity-discount.asp 

69. One possible downside to choosing overseas suppliers is 
A. increased delivery times.
B. a simpler supply chain.
C. increased costs.
D. increased taxes.

69. A
Increased delivery times. Most companies want to reduce supply chain costs. Some of them may decide to use overseas suppliers, who often have lower prices and lower taxes. However, using an overseas supplier can often result in increased delivery time and a more complex supply chain. 
SOURCE: OP:480 Discuss global supply chain issues
SOURCE: Roy, E. (2017, March 31). What are the biggest challenges of managing global supply chains?
Retrieved August 4, 2023, from https://www.tradeready.ca/2017/topics/supply-chainmanagement/biggest-challenges-managing-global-supply-chains 

73. One of the primary goals of supply chain management is to 
A. set prices for products that maximize profits.
B. control customer perceptions of a business.
C. minimize overall value to the customer.
D. gain a competitive advantage in the marketplace.

73. D
Gain a competitive advantage in the marketplace. Supply chain management involves supervising the complete process of getting products into the marketplace, from production to purchase by an end consumer. Two of the main goals of supply chain management are maximizing the value that is provided to the customer and gaining a competitive advantage in the marketplace by moving goods effectively and efficiently. Setting prices and controlling customer perceptions are not primary goals of supply chain management. 
SOURCE: OP:303 Discuss the nature of supply chain management
SOURCE: Fernando, J. (2022, July 7). Supply chain management (SCM): How it works and why it is important.
Retrieved August 4, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/s/scm.asp BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 17 

80. A manufacturing company would like to produce 5,000 finished products per day; however, the company cannot afford the machinery to do so. Instead, the firm decides to extend each employee's work day by one hour to make up for the lost production. This is an example of how __________ impact(s) business process design. 
A. technology
B. social norms
C. regulations
D. human error

80. A
Technology. In this example, the technology that was needed was too expensive for the company to purchase, so the manufacturing process had to be changed in response. This example demonstrates how technology can influence business process design, not regulations, human error, or social norms. 
SOURCE: OP:475 Describe the factors that influence business process design
SOURCE: Taylor, H. (2017, September 26). Factors that affect process design. Retrieved August 4, 2023,
from https://bizfluent.com/list-7444011-factors-affect-process-design.html 

81. Which of the following are examples of digital assets a business could own: 
A. Logos, apps, and customer email lists
B. Websites, machinery, and subscriptions
C. Websites, photographs, and property
D. Cash, photographs, and machinery

81. A
Logos, apps, and customer email lists. Assets are anything of value that a business owns, and digital assets are those that are kept electronically. This includes a variety of items: websites, social media accounts and posts, customer email lists, photographs and other imagery, logos, apps, blogs, subscriptions, etc. Property, cash, and machinery are examples of physical, not digital, assets. 
SOURCE: OP:517 Comply with strategies for protecting business' digital assets (e.g., website, social media,
email, etc.) 
SOURCE: Murray, J. (2020, July 21). How to protect your company's digital assets. Retrieved August 4, 2023,
from https://www.thebalancemoney.com/how-to-protect-company-digital-assets-4153375 BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 19 

84. Monitoring a project makes sure people involved are doing their part to make the project run smoothly. This is an example of how monitoring a project 
A. saves time and resources.
B. creates accountability.
C. helps you learn from experience.
D. builds stronger relationships with stakeholders.

84. B
Creates accountability. Monitoring projects keeps everyone on track. It makes sure you're hitting the key milestones. It also makes sure that everyone is doing their job to make the project run smoothly. Monitoring projects also helps you learn from experience, builds stronger relationships with stakeholders, and saves time and resources, but those benefits are not related to the given example. 
SOURCE: OP:520 Monitor projects and take corrective actions
SOURCE: LAP-OP-520—Check Your (Project) Pulse (Monitoring Projects and Taking Corrective Actions)

87. To reduce the risk of injury in the workplace, the government requires businesses to follow 
A. safety regulations.
B. organizational health policies.
C. conservation ordinances.
D. privacy laws.

87. A
Safety regulations. Employees have the right to work in a safe environment. To ensure that businesses protect this right, the government regulates certain business activities. For example, the government might require businesses to inspect dangerous equipment at certain intervals to ensure that it is operating correctly. Equipment that is not maintained properly is more likely to break and cause injuries to the employees who operate it. Privacy laws address consumers' right to privacy. Conservation ordinances are local regulations that address environmental issues. An organization's health policies are internal rules and guidelines, which may or may not be influenced by government regulations. 
SOURCE: OP:004 Describe health and safety regulations in business
SOURCE: Nelson, N. (2020, November 10). Government regulation of safety in the workplace. Retrieved
August 3, 2023, from https://www.wolterskluwer.com/en/expert-insights/government-regulation-ofsafety-in-the-workplace 

89. Every task in a business process should have defined roles and responsibilities, which can be documented in an ARCI matrix. ARCI stands for accountable, responsible, __________, and informed. 
A. constant
B. controlled
C. consulted
D. collaborative

89. C
Consulted. ARCI stands for accountable (who is in charge of the process), responsible (who will carry out specific tasks), consulted (roles that need to be consulted before an action), and informed (who needs to be kept in the picture). 
SOURCE: OP:474 Discuss business process thinking and its impact
SOURCE: Gyani, S. (2023, June 2). Set your team up for success with the ARCI matrix. Retrieved August 4,
2023, from https://www.insightlopedia.com/articles/set-your-team-up-for-success-with-the-arcimatrix 

94. Which of the following statements best describes how all employees can help control company expenses: 
A. They can manage their time efficiently.
B. They can implement a department budget.
C. They can control company purchasing costs.
D. They can increase the profit margin ratio.

94. A
They can manage their time efficiently. All employees have the capability and opportunity to manage their time efficiently, which can help a company control costs. Managers, not all employees, implement a department budget. Purchasing is often done by a department or certain individuals, not by all employees. A company's profit margin depends on many variables that are often out of employees' control. 
SOURCE: OP:025 Explain employee's role in expense control
SOURCE: Mendoza, A.C. (2023, June 13). Boosting business efficiency: Use cases for time & expense
management automation. Retrieved August 3, 2023, from https://blog.data-basics.com/use-casestime-expense-automation 

2. Jeffrey has worked as a logistics professional for several decades. After retiring, the company he left is struggling to find a suitable replacement that possesses Jeffrey’s experience and expertise. The issue this company is facing relates to 
A. the loss of institutional knowledge.
B. global conflicts causing supply chain disruptions.
C. the challenges of reverse logistics.
D. increased use of automation.

2. A
The loss of institutional knowledge. Institutional knowledge is the sum of information possessed by a company and its employees. Because Jeffrey has amassed a wealth of relevant information, experiences, and best practices over his many years with his company, the company is struggling to find a replacement that possesses his level of institutional knowledge. Automation is a method of operating or controlling a process in which tasks are completed by automatic means, such as technology, reducing human effort and labor. Reverse logistics refers to the movement of products back through the supply chain, from customers back to distributors, manufacturers, or suppliers. There is no indication that Jeffrey leaving the company is related to automation or reverse logistics. While global conflicts cause supply chain disruptions, Jeffrey’s retirement is not related to global supply chain disruptions. 
SOURCE: OP:480 Discuss global supply chain issues
SOURCE: Morgan, J.P. (2022, May 25). What’s behind the global supply chain crisis? Retrieved October 27,
2023, from https://www.jpmorgan.com/insights/global-research/supply-chain/global-supply-chainissues 

3. A company creates a purchase agreement with its supplier that outlines the specific terms and conditions, as well as the payment and delivery terms. However, this agreement does not specify the goods and services the company is purchasing. This describes what type of purchase order? 
A. Standard
B. Contract
C. Planned
D. Blanket

3. B
Contract. A purchase order is a form that a business fills out to order goods. The four main types of purchase orders are standard purchase orders, planned purchase orders, blanket purchase orders, and contract purchase orders. A contract purchase order sets out the supplier's details and potentially the payment and delivery terms, but it does not specify the products or services purchased. Standard purchase orders are typically used for one-time purchases of various items, and they contain a complete specification of the purchase, price, quantity, delivery schedule, and accounting distributions. Planned purchase orders are longterm agreements committing to buying items or services from a specific source. Like a standard purchase order, a planned purchase order requires full details of the goods and services, their costs, their delivery dates, etc. A blanket purchase order involves a purchaser agreeing to buy particular goods and services, but not at any specific quantity. 
SOURCE: OP:250 Describe types of purchase orders
SOURCE: Melanie. (2019, December 16). Types of purchase order - The 4 kinds you need to know. Retrieved
October 31, 2023, from https://www.unleashedsoftware.com/blog/managing-procurement-purchaseorders 

4. Which of the following is an impact that planning can have on a project: 
A. It increases transparency.
B. It makes it easier to cut corners.
C. It increases disorganization.
D. It keeps stakeholders detached.

4. A
It increases transparency. Planning is important to the success of projects for many reasons, including that it increases transparency. A project plan allows everyone to be aware of the scope and deliverables of the project, and it helps everyone share knowledge and be open whenever roadblocks occur. Planning helps a project because it helps keep you organized, not disorganized. Planning improves communication and keeps stakeholders engaged, not detached. Rather than making it easier to cut corners, planning helps avoid the negative effects of cutting corners. 
SOURCE: OP:519 Plan project
SOURCE: LAP-OP-519—Plan On It! (Planning Projects)
2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 2 

10. Online buying, also known as __________, has drastically changed the logistics strategies of supply chain management. 
A. integration
B. e-commerce
C. artificial intelligence
D. automation

10. B
E-commerce. Since the emergence of the digital marketplace, logistics has become vital to the survival of supply chains. Increased online demand has created a final-mile arms race, where supply chains fiercely compete to provide the best e-commerce delivery service available. Artificial intelligence (AI) is technology that mimics or surpasses human intelligence. Automation is the use of technology to control a process, reducing human effort and labor. Integration is the process of coordinating the physical flow of materials to ensure maximum productivity throughout the entire supply chain. 
SOURCE: OP:480 Discuss global supply chain issues
SOURCE: Davis, J. (2021, July 11). Prepare your company for the global supply chain challenges. Retrieved
November 3, 2023, from https://managerplus.iofficecorp.com/blog/global-supply-chain-challenges 

11. Yorkshire Inc. buys several products in bulk from a manufacturer to then sell to retailers. In this example, Yorkshire Inc. is a 
A. wholesaler.
B. producer.
C. marketer.
D. manufacturer.

11. A
Wholesaler. Wholesalers are intermediaries who buy goods from producers, or manufacturers, and sell them to retailers. Yorkshire is not a producer because they do not make goods. They are also not a manufacturer, because manufacturers take goods or materials from suppliers and create a finished product. Marketers are people or groups who create value for a company by promoting products or communicating with customers. 
SOURCE: OP:477 Explain the impact of supply chains on business performance
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2023, March 28). The supply chain: From raw materials to order fulfillment. Retrieved
October 27, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/s/supplychain.asp 

12. Which of the following supply chain models is popular in markets where there is intense competition: 
A. Custom-configured
B. Efficient
C. Flexible
D. Continuous flow

12. B
Efficient. The efficient supply chain model is preferred in markets with intense competition because this model emphasizes supply chain efficiency and delivery excellence over creating a product that stands out from competing firms. The flexible supply chain model is used by organizations in industries that typically experience periods of extremely high demand followed by periods of low demand. The continuous flow supply chain model emphasizes stability and consistency, and it is typically employed in industries where supply and demand are predictable and secure. The custom-configured supply chain model is designed to suit products that have many customization options. 
SOURCE: OP:479 Describe supply chain networks
SOURCE: Rielly, D. (2023, May 23). Six supply chain models you need to know. Retrieved November 3, 2023,
from https://www.magaya.com/the-6-degrees-of-supply-chain-connections/ 

19. When a company protects copyrighted material, patents, or proprietary information, it is protecting its 
A. business inventory.
B. promotional content.
C. intellectual property.
D. artificial intelligence.

19. C
Intellectual property. Intellectual property are the intangible business assets resulting from creative or thinking processes. This includes copyrighted material, patents, and proprietary information. Artificial intelligence (AI) is technology that mimics or surpasses human intelligence. Business inventory is a company’s stock on hand. Not all inventory is copyrighted or patented material. Promotional content are marketing deliverables. 
SOURCE: OP:517 Comply with strategies for protecting business' digital assets (e.g., website, social media,
email, etc.) 
SOURCE: Murray, J. (2020, July 21). How to protect your company’s digital assets. Retrieved November 3,
2023, from https://www.thebalancemoney.com/how-to-protect-company-digital-assets-4153375 

24. Sylvia is in charge of the spring musical and asks the drama teacher whether there are old costumes in storage that could be borrowed for the play. Sylvia’s drama teacher is an example of a(n) __________ resource. 
A. financial
B. external
C. intangible
D. internal

24. D
Internal. Sources are either internal or external. Internal sources are those within your project team, workplace, school, club, or group. External sources are outside of the organization. Because Sylvia consulted someone within her school, the drama teacher is an example of an internal, not external, resource. If something is intangible, it is not able to be touched or held. Sylvia’s drama teacher is not a financial resource because they are not related to money/funding. 
SOURCE: OP:003 Identify resources needed for project
SOURCE: LAP-OP-003—Get What You Need (Identifying Project Resources)

25. A manufacturer always keeps excess products on hand in case of emergencies. These products are an example of 
A. finished goods.
B. raw materials.
C. buffer inventory.
D. work-in-process inventory.

25. C
Buffer inventory. Buffer inventory refers to excess inventory kept on hand in case of emergencies. These inventory protect against supply problems, such as poor quality or slow delivery of raw materials. Raw materials are items in their natural state or condition that are used in the manufacturing process. Work-in-process inventory items are materials and parts waiting to be made into something else. Finished goods are any products ready to be shipped out or sold directly to customers. 
SOURCE: OP:336 Discuss types of inventory
SOURCE: Magloff, L. (n.d.). Types of inventory for an organization. Retrieved October 31, 2023, from
https://smallbusiness.chron.com/types-inventory-organization-14109.html 

29. Companies should establish strong __________ to improve the security of their accounts, archives, and data. 
A. management
B. investments
C. passwords
D. customer relations

29. C
Passwords. Businesses should create strong, varied passwords to guard access into their accounts, archives, and data. While most companies do need strong investments, management, and customer relations, none of these business elements will help them protect sensitive accounts and information. 
SOURCE: OP:064 Maintain data security
SOURCE: Federal Trade Commission. (n.d.). Start with security: A guide for business. Retrieved January 24,
2024, from https://www.ftc.gov/business-guidance/resources/start-security-guide-business 

31. Which of the following statements best characterizes business process thinking: 
A. It helps employees see the full picture of an organization.
B. It reduces the need for interdepartmental communication.
C. It relies on the use of automated technology.
D. It is used predominantly as a quality management framework.

31. A
It helps employees see the full picture of an organization. Business process thinking involves thinking of an organization not as a group of departments performing their own tasks, but as a set of processes working together to accomplish a shared goal. Business process thinking helps employees see the full picture of an organization, because it encourages them to consider their work within the context of a greater organizational effort. Business process thinking relies on interdepartmental communication—not necessarily automated technology. It is not used predominantly as a quality management framework. 
SOURCE: OP:475 Describe the factors that influence business process design
SOURCE: Tallyfy. (n.d.). Importance of process thinking in business management. Retrieved October 26, 2023,
from https://tallyfy.com/process-thinking/ 2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 8 

38. Companies can protect their customers by restricting the dissemination of PII, also known as 
A. personally identifiable information.
B. partial individual inputs.
C. patronage-implementation idea.
D. patented intelligence integration.

38. A
Personally identifiable information. Personally identifiable information (PII) is any data that could potentially identify a specific individual. Any information that can be used to distinguish one person from another is a potential security risk to customers. Therefore, it is important for companies to protect this information. Patented intelligence integration, partial individual inputs, and patronage-implementation idea are not acknowledged acronyms regarding customer protection. 
SOURCE: OP:518 Comply with strategies to protect digital customer data (e.g., information about customers,
customers' credit-card numbers, passwords, customer transactions) 
SOURCE: Rossi, B. (2019, December 3). 10 ways businesses can protect customer data. Retrieved November
3, 2023, from https://www.information-age.com/10-ways-businesses-can-protect-customer-data-128/ 

48. The ultimate goal of supply chains is to 
A. gather raw materials.
B. achieve customer satisfaction.
C. be flexible.
D. span as many countries as possible.

48. B
Achieve customer satisfaction. The ultimate goal of supply chains is customer satisfaction—a measure of how well a business has met its customers’ expectations. From a supply chain perspective, achieving customer satisfaction means creating and maintaining a system that produces high-quality products and distributes those products effectively. While many supply chains span several countries, others are confined to local communities. Raw materials are important in supply chains but are not the ultimate goal. While supply chains should aim to be flexible, it is not their most important goal. 
SOURCE: OP:479 Describe supply chain networks
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2023, March 28). The supply chain: From raw materials to order fulfillment. Retrieved
October 27, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/s/supplychain.asp 

50. Which of the following is a way in which a company can improve its cybersecurity: 
A. Avoid implementing multifactor authentication
B. Encourage the use of basic and simple passwords
C. Train employees to recognize threats
D. Allow employees access to all company information

50. C
Train employees to recognize threats. One of the best ways a company can improve its cybersecurity is by training its employees to recognize threats. Doing so helps staff members identify cybersecurity threats and to properly report them. Encouraging the use of basic and simple passwords, avoiding implementing multifactor authentication, and allowing employees access to all company information are not ways in which a company can improve its cybersecurity. Rather, companies should encourage the use of complex passwords, implement multifactor authentication, and limit employee access to only what is necessary. 
SOURCE: OP:518 Comply with strategies to protect digital customer data (e.g., information about customers,
customers' credit-card numbers, passwords, customer transactions) 
SOURCE: Conlin, B. (2023, October 20). How to improve your small business's cybersecurity in an hour.
Retrieved October 31, 2023, from https://www.businessnewsdaily.com/15046-quick-cybersecuritytips.html 

53. Which of the following are examples of digital assets: 
A. Social media accounts and photos
B. Websites and printers
C. Hardware and email lists
D. Desktop computers and videos

53. A
Social media accounts and photos. A digital asset is anything that is created or stored digitally, provides value, establishes ownership, and is discoverable. Examples of digital assets include social media accounts, photos, email lists, websites, videos, documents, manuscripts, and intellectual property such as logos. Hardware, printers, and desktop computers are physical, tangible objects that cannot be stored digitally. Therefore, they are not examples of digital assets. 
SOURCE: OP:517 Comply with strategies for protecting business' digital assets (e.g., website, social media,
email, etc.) 
SOURCE: Frankenfield, J. (2023, September 9). Digital asset: Meaning, types, and importance. Retrieved
October 31, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/d/digital-asset-framework.asp 2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 13 

61. Which of the following events would be most likely to inspire business process changes: 
A. Company downsizing
B. A routine safety inspection
C. Firing an employee
D. Meeting with a new client

61. A
Company downsizing. Downsizing, or reducing the size and payroll of a company by eliminating workers, would be most likely to inspire changes to business processes. When companies cut costs and reduce manpower, they are often forced to significantly change their processes to accommodate for the changes in budget and manpower. Meeting with a new client or firing a single employee are unlikely to inspire business process changes because they are relatively insignificant events in comparison. A routine safety inspection may bring about process changes if a safety hazard is discovered, but this occurrence is less likely to inspire change than the downsizing of an entire company. 
SOURCE: OP:476 Explain the causes of business process changes
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2022, December 26). Business process redesign (BPR). Retrieved October 27, 2023,
from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/b/business-process-redesign.asp 2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 15 

65. Which of the following is an example of quantitative data: 
A. Diaries and logs
B. Feedback forms
C. Focus groups
D. Sales numbers

65. D
Sales numbers. Quantitative data are numerical facts and figures such as time and money. Sales numbers are an example of monetary data that are not subjective. Feedback forms, diaries and logs, and focus groups are examples of qualitative data. 
SOURCE: OP:521 Evaluate project success
SOURCE: LAP-OP-521—Making the Grade (Evaluating Project Success)

66. Which of the following techniques is crucial to maintaining supplier relationships: 
A. Avoid automated technologies.
B. Provide consistent communication.
C. Overpromise your suppliers
D. Be reactive, not proactive.

66. B
Provide consistent communication. Maintaining clear and consistent communication channels is one of the most important principles of supplier relationships. Regular communications will help all involved parties better understand each other’s operations, culture, and vision. It is important to be proactive, not reactive, when maintaining supplier relationships. It is a mistake to overpromise business opportunities or attempt practices that are infeasible. Businesses should embrace automated technologies because they help improve virtually any business processes, including vendor relationships. 
SOURCE: OP:241 Maintain vendor/supplier relationships
SOURCE: Lavelle, E. (2023, October 23). 10 ways to improve your supplier relationships. Retrieved October
23, 2023, from https://enable.com/blog/10-ways-to-improve-your-supplier-relationships 2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 16 

68. Machine learning and artificial intelligence (AI) have greatly contributed to the increased use of __________ in supply chains. 
A. automation
B. raw materials
C. manual labor
D. tariffs

68. A
Automation. Automation is the method of using technology to complete tasks for the purpose of reducing human effort and labor. As machines and computers become more intelligent, they will continue to further the usefulness of automation in supply chains and supply chain management. Raw materials are items in their natural state or condition—raw materials have been an important element of supply chains well before the implementation of machine learning and AI. Manual labor is decreasing due to machine learning and AI, not increasing. Tariffs are not directly related to automation. 
SOURCE: OP:478 Describe the impact of technology on supply chain management
SOURCE: Stackpole, B. (2020, February 14). 5 supply chain technologies that deliver competitive advantage.
Retrieved October 23, 2023, from https://mitsloan.mit.edu/ideas-made-to-matter/5-supply-chaintechnologies-deliver-competitive-advantage 

81. If a business is looking to analyze both internal and external factors at play in its organization, it would conduct a __________ analysis. 
A. MoSCoW
B. MOST
C. PESTLE
D. SWOT

81. D
SWOT. A SWOT analysis analyzes strengths and weaknesses (internal factors) as well as opportunities and threats (external factors). It is useful when evaluating an organization's competitive position and to develop strategic planning. A MOST (Mission, Objective, Strategy, Tactics) analysis is a method for providing targets to team members at every level of an organization, ensuring that the organization retains focus on its goals. A PESTLE (Political, Economic, Sociological, Technological, Legal, Environmental) analysis identifies and analyzes the key drivers of change in the strategic or business environment. The MosCoW (Must or Should, Could or Would) method is a four-step approach to prioritizing which project requirements provide the best return on investment. 
SOURCE: OP:327 Discuss the nature of business analysis
SOURCE: Adesope, B. (2017, May 10). Top 5 techniques in business analysis. Retrieved October 31, 2023,
from https://www.batimes.com/articles/top-5-techniques-in-business-analysis 

82. Before planning and engaging in vendor negotiations, procurement specialists should 
A. finalize the vendor contract.
B. draft a confidentiality agreement.
C. pursue opportunities elsewhere.
D. identify negotiation objectives.

82. D
Identify negotiation objectives. The first step in negotiating terms with vendors is to identify the desired outcomes of the negotiations. When procurement specialists can clearly identify their negotiation objectives, they can confidently enter discussions with vendors. Finalizing a vendor contract comes at the end of negotiations when terms have been agreed upon. Confidentiality agreements should not be drafted until details of the purchasing agreement are clear. It would be premature to pursue other opportunities before negotiations even begin. 
SOURCE: OP:337 Negotiate terms with vendors in business
SOURCE: Bucki, J. (2020, April 8). Contract negotiation strategies to select the right vendor. Retrieved October
23, 2023, from https://www.liveabout.com/contract-negotiation-strategies-2533815 

83. Which of the following is a goal of federal fair-trade laws: 
A. Determining if a product poses a danger to the public
B. Ensuring businesses have implied product warranties
C. Banning products deemed dangerous to the public
D. Promoting competition in the marketplace

83. D
Promoting competition in the marketplace. Federal fair-trade laws are enforced by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC)—the regulatory agency that enforces consumer-protection laws and antitrust laws to prevent price fixing and to prohibit unfair competitive practices. The FTC was created to promote competition and protect consumers from deceptive and fraudulent practices in the marketplace. Determining if a product poses a danger to the public and banning products deemed dangerous to the public are goals of federal safety laws. Federal law governs written product warranties, while state laws govern implied product warranties. 
SOURCE: OP:339 Discuss legal considerations in operations
SOURCE: Bonner, M. (2019, September 5). How consumer protection laws affect businesses. Retrieved
October 31, 2023, from https://thebalancemoney.com/how-consumer-protection-laws-affectbusinesses-4161325 

84. Cameron is starting a new business and needs to determine the company’s workflows and procedures. Which of the following would be most helpful for Cameron: 
A. SWOT analysis
B. A 457 plan
C. Automation
D. Business process design

84. D
Business process design. Business process design, typically done when starting a new business, means creating a new workflow. A structured approach to business process design typically involves mapping, task identification, and analysis. If Cameron is starting a new business and needs to determine the company’s different workflows and procedures, he would be helped most by business process design. A 457 plan (retirement plan for government employees), automation (use of technology), and SWOT analysis (marketing tool) would not help Cameron determine the company’s workflows and procedures. 
SOURCE: OP:475 Describe the factors that influence business process design
SOURCE: Tallyfy. (n.d.). Business process design (BPD): What it is and how it works. Retrieved October 26,
2023, from https://tallyfy.com/business-process-design/ 2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 20 

86. When a manufacturer acquires firms at the distribution end of its supply chain, it is performing __________ integration. 
A. backward
B. positive
C. forward
D. negative

86. C
Forward. Forward integration is integration toward the distribution end of the supply chain. Therefore, a manufacturer acquiring firms at the distribution end of the supply chain is an example of forward integration. Backwards integration is the acquisition of firms at the supplier end of the supply chain. Negative and positive integration are not types of integration in supply chain management. 
SOURCE: OP:303 Discuss the nature of supply chain management
SOURCE: LAP-OP-303—Top of the (Supply) Chain (Nature of Supply Chain Management)

90. Delia is a third-party logistics professional who has been contracted to revamp the product return system for a local distributor. To achieve this, Delia should develop a(n) __________ plan for the distributor. 
A. reverse logistics
B. data mining
C. order fulfilment
D. market segmentation

90. A
Reverse logistics. Reverse logistics refers to the backward movement of products through the supply chain, from customers to distributors, manufacturers, or suppliers. By developing a reverse logistics plan, Delia can help her client create a better system of product returns. Order fulfillment is the complete act of receiving, processing, and shipping a customer’s order, and is not directly connected to returning products. Market segmentation is the division of a total market into smaller, more specific groups. Data mining is the process of searching, collecting, and analyzing large amounts of data to extract actionable information. 
SOURCE: OP:677 Discuss ethical considerations in supply chain management
SOURCE: OpenText. (2019, October 7). What is the ethical supply chain? Retrieved October 23, 2023, from
https://blogs.opentext.com/what-is-the-ethical-supply-chain 

91. Business processes help organizations by introducing 
A. advertising.
B. people knowledge.
C. sales quotas.
D. standardization.

91. D
Standardization. Business processes create standardization, or the organization of work so that it is always done in the same way. This increases efficiency and reduces the risk of errors or inconsistencies. Advertising is any paid form of nonpersonal presentation of ideas, goods, or services. While there can be business processes within advertising, business processes do not lead to advertisements themselves. People knowledge is an awareness and recognition of different people and cultures and is not necessarily created by business processes. While business processes can help determine sales quotas, they do not specifically introduce them to a business. 
SOURCE: OP:474 Discuss business process thinking and its impact
SOURCE: Pitagorsky, G. (2016, August 3). The importance of process thinking. Retrieved October 27, 2023,
from https://www.projecttimes.com/articles/the-importance-of-process-thinking/ 

17. Business process improvement focuses on reducing process time, minimizing waste/inefficiencies, and __________ of an established business process. 
A. eliminating quality control
B. reducing oversight
C. developing protocols
D. improving output quality

17. D
Improving output quality. Once a business process has been established, focus turns to improving that process. Recognizing the need for these improvements tends to focus on maximizing the quality of the process's end result without increasing the amount of input or materials cost. Reducing waste and cost and maximizing quality are measures of the efficiency of a process, and efficiency is a central goal of process improvement. Reducing oversight may result from the improvement of a process, but it is not a chief consideration unless that oversight is shown to be wasteful. Quality control is a central driver of process improvement. Developing protocols should largely happen at the process design stage, not the improvement stage. 
SOURCE: OP:476 Explain the causes of business process changes
SOURCE: Kothari, A. (2021). Business process improvement (bpi)—definition, steps & methodologies.
Retrieved September 21, 2023, from https://tallyfy.com/business-process-improvement-bpi/ BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 5 

19. A standard purchase order should include product specifications, quantities, prices, and 
A. credit references.
B. the invoice code.
C. location of buyer's customer.
D. shipping requirements.

19. D
Shipping requirements. A regular or stock purchase order should include all of the necessary information for processing the request, which includes the appropriate quantities and prices of the desired goods. The purchase order should provide the shipping location at the desired time for delivery. In some situations, the buyer may also include the desired shipment method on the purchase order. For example, a business that orders a standard part to repair a piece of equipment may want the part shipped by air to ensure that it receives the part quickly. If the business does not indicate that it needs the item quickly, the vendor may ship it by rail or truck, which would take longer to deliver. Unless the order is a drop shipment, the vendor does not need to know the location of the buyer's customer. The invoice is processed by the vendor rather than the buyer; therefore, the buyer would not provide an invoice code or number. The buyer might need to provide the supplier with credit references from their other vendors if the company is placing an initial order; however, this information is not necessary to provide on regular purchase orders. In most cases, the buyer must complete a different form to list credit references. 
SOURCE: OP:250 Describe types of purchase orders
SOURCE: Procurify (2021, April 23). All you ever need to know about purchase orders. Retrieved September
21, 2023, from https://blog.procurify.com/2013/09/23/all-you-ever-needed-to-know-about-purchaseorders/ 

23. Which of the following statements about protecting digital customer data is true: 
A. Protecting digital customer data is a responsibility of the IT department.
B. A company's protection of data has little impact on the customer's perception of the company.
C. Protecting digital customer data is only necessary for large businesses.
D. Data protection strategies should be reevaluated often.

23. D
Data protection strategies should be reevaluated often. Data protection strategies should be reevaluated often because, as technology changes and hackers become more sophisticated, what was a good strategy five years ago may not be effective today. Protecting digital data is an important task for everyone in the company, not just the IT department. If a company fails to adequately protect its data, customers will likely have a negative perception of that company. Protecting digital customer data is necessary for businesses of all sizes. 
SOURCE: OP:518 Comply with strategies to protect digital customer data (e.g., information about customers,
customers' credit-card numbers, passwords, customer transactions) 
SOURCE: Rossi, B. (2019, December 3). 10 ways businesses can protect customer data. Retrieved September
22, 2023, from https://www.information-age.com/10-ways-businesses-can-protect-customer-data123459341/ 

25. Sandra is a manager at a distribution plant. Lately, her customers have been complaining about untimely deliveries. Which area of the business does Sandra need to focus on to ensure on-time delivery? 
A. Production
B. The sales force
C. Inventory control
D. Supply chain management

25. D
Supply chain management. Supply chain management is a career area in which employees supervise the complete process of getting products into the marketplace—a career field in which employees are responsible for the flow of goods from the manufacturer to the end user. Inventory control is the tracking of the amount, the kind, and the value of inventory that a business has on hand. The sales force sells the products and services but is not necessarily responsible for delivery. Production is the process of creating goods and services, but is not responsible for delivery. 
SOURCE: OP:477 Explain the impact of supply chains on business performance
SOURCE: NC State University. (2021, August 19). What is supply chain management (SCM)? Retrieved
September 21, 2023, from https://scm.ncsu.edu/scm-articles/article/what-is-supply-chainmanagement 

26. Silence is an effective negotiating technique to use with a vendor when a business wants the vendor to 
A. obtain leverage.
B. initiate a gridlock.
C. maintain its authority.
D. make a concession.

26. D
Make a concession. A concession is something that one party gives up during a negotiation. Effective negotiators plan the points that they are willing to concede before going to the negotiating table. Often, the negotiator will use silence as a way to make the vendor feel uncomfortable. The business hopes that the vendor might concede the point to fill the silence and keep the discussion going. The business will work to maintain its leverage or power (authority) over the negotiation so it can get what it wants from the vendor. If agreement cannot be reached, the negotiation may end in gridlock, a situation in which neither party gets what it wants. 
SOURCE: OP:337 Negotiate terms with vendors in business
SOURCE: Walsh, D. (2021, April 27). In negotiation, use silence to improve outcomes for all. Retrieved
September 21, 2023, from https://mitsloan.mit.edu/ideas-made-to-matter/negotiation-use-silence-toimprove-outcomes-all 

29. Which of the following is a way that employees who handle sales transactions can help save the business money: 
A. Neglecting to validate credit cards
B. Watching for counterfeit money
C. Accepting coupons
D. Counting out too much change

29. B
Watching for counterfeit money. Employees who handle sales transactions have excellent opportunities to save the business money. They can do this by watching for counterfeit money. An employee who accepts counterfeit money actually costs a business money because the counterfeit currency is worthless. In effect, the business has given away a good or service free of charge. Accepting coupons saves customers money instead of the company issuing them. Employees should always validate credit cards and count out the exact amount of change. 
SOURCE: OP:025 Explain employee's role in expense control
SOURCE: LAP-OP-025—Buck Busters (Employee Role in Expense Control)
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 8 

43. An effective way to prioritize work is to categorize tasks in 
A. order of their importance.
B. numerical sequence.
C. alphabetical order.
D. relation to enjoyment level.

43. A
Order of their importance. Prioritizing involves ranking things in the order of their relative importance. Individuals evaluate many factors when prioritizing their work, including due dates and the time that it will take to complete a task. Categorizing tasks in alphabetical order and categorizing them in numerical order are not effective ways to prioritize tasks. Sometimes, the most difficult or unpleasant tasks are the most important to complete; therefore, prioritizing work in relation to the level of enjoyment you have while performing the task is not an effective method to use to set priorities. 
SOURCE: OP:228 Organize and prioritize work
SOURCE: MacKay, J. (2020, May 5). The "everything is important" paradox: 9 practical methods for how to
prioritize your work (and time). Retrieved September 21, 2023, from https://blog.rescuetime.com/how-to-prioritize/ 

45. Becky's boss has asked her to do research on the company's last five annual financial reports. They want to find out why the company has been losing more money this year than in previous years. What type of work is Becky's boss asking her to perform? 
A. Managerial accounting
B. Marketing research
C. Data normalization
D. Business analysis

45. D
Business analysis. Business analysis is the investigation into the operations of a business to reveal the causes behind specific results and the effects of those results on the business. Managerial accounting is the process of identifying and analyzing financial information to help managers make informed business decisions. Becky is not recommending solutions to her boss; she is simply doing research. Therefore, she is not performing managerial accounting. Data normalization is the process of organizing data to reduce data redundancy, and marketing research is research related to a company's marketing efforts. Becky's boss is not asking her to perform either of these types of work. 
SOURCE: OP:327 Discuss the nature of business analysis
SOURCE: International Institute of Business Analysis. (2023). What is business analysis? Retrieved September
21, 2023, from https://www.iiba.org/professional-development/career-centre/what-is-businessanalysis/ 

46. What is a way to start determining which parts of a project are most important for you to evaluate? 
A. Focus on financial data.
B. Consider project goals.
C. Perform gap analysis.
D. Communicate lessons learned with stakeholders.

46. B
Consider project goals. While there are some general parts of any project that you can evaluate, you should look at which measures are most important for your specific project. To start, consider project goals. Your most important evaluation criteria will likely relate directly to your project's objectives. Communicating lessons learned, performing gap analysis, and focusing on financial data are not ways to start determining which parts of a project are successful. 
SOURCE: OP:521 Evaluate project success
SOURCE: LAP-OP-521—Making the Grade (Evaluating Project Success)
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 12 

47. Which of the following facility components are inspected by authorized officials to ensure that safety ordinances are met: 
A. Elevators
B. Computer networks
C. Portable cameras
D. Photocopiers

47. A
Elevators. Governments develop regulations to ensure the public's safety. Government regulations require businesses to have their elevators inspected on a regular basis by a government agent or independent entity to ensure that elevators are running correctly. During the inspection, the inspector might identify problems with the elevators that compromise the employees' and visitors' safety. By identifying the problems, the business can repair the elevators so they operate correctly and are in compliance. Photocopiers, computer networks, and portable cameras are equipment rather than components of the facility. 
SOURCE: OP:339 Discuss legal considerations in operations
SOURCE: Schindler. (2023). Tips for riders. Retrieved September 21, 2023,
from https://www.schindler.com/us/internet/en/about-us/safety/tips-for-riders.html#button 

50. Which of the following circumstances might be addressed in a project plan's change-management document: 
A. A natural disaster
B. A holiday such as Christmas or Hanukkah
C. A project's changing purpose
D. A team member receiving a requested promotion

50. A
A natural disaster. A natural disaster is something that might be addressed in a project plan's changemanagement document because it is an unforeseen circumstance that can't be planned for. A holiday is a known, scheduled occurrence—a project manager can plan ahead and schedule around it. A project's purpose should not change once it is underway. A team member receiving a requested promotion would fall under risk management because it is a known possibility. 
SOURCE: OP:001 Develop project plan
SOURCE: LAP-OP-001—Chart Your Course (Developing a Project Plan)
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 13 

53. Which of the following are maintenance supplies that a business is likely to keep on hand: 
A. Mops, furniture, and conveyer belts
B. Trash bags, sanitizer, and light bulbs
C. Paper towels, pens, and sportswear
D. Batteries, computers, and cleaning items

53. B
Trash bags, sanitizer, and light bulbs. All types of businesses keep maintenance supplies on hand to ensure that the business is clean and that it runs smoothly. Trash bags, sanitizer, light bulbs, batteries, cleaning items, paper towels, and mops are maintenance items that businesses keep on hand. Pens may be classified as maintenance or office supplies. Computers, conveyer belts, and office furniture are capital goods or equipment that businesses use to operate smoothly. Sportswear items (e.g., shorts, T-shirts) are most likely resale inventory. 
SOURCE: OP:336 Discuss types of inventory
SOURCE: Magloff, L. (2016, October 26). Types of inventory for an organization. Retrieved September 21,
2023, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/types-inventory-organization-14109.html 

54. In a basic supply chain, materials flow from producers to end users in a sequential, ordered process. How are supply chain networks different? 
A. Supply chain networks only involve the companies that function in upstream processes, not downstream
processes. B. Supply chain networks are more complex and show how information and materials flow back and forth
among various supply chain partners. C. The supply chain network is an older, outdated method of understanding the supply chain that is rarely used
today. D. The supply chain network is a new, but untested, method of understanding the supply chain that is seen as

54. B
Supply chain networks are more complex and show how information and materials flow back and forth among various supply chain partners. Supply chain networks include a greater number of partners than the basic supply chain outline and show more complex relationships among these partners. Supply chain networks involve every company or entity that is involved in the production of a certain product or service, including companies involved in both upstream and downstream processes. The supply chain network is an evolved version of the basic supply chain and is considered more modern and sophisticated. The supply chain network is generally accepted as the new way of viewing the supply chain and is in widespread use today. 
SOURCE: OP:479 Describe supply chain networks
SOURCE: Forrest, M. (2023, September 21). What is supply chain network design and how does it work?
Retrieved September 22, 2023, from https://carto.com/blog/what-is-supply-chain-network-designhow-does-it-work BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 14 

66. Which of the following elements of supply chain management involves making sure that supply chain processes happen on time, on budget, and are of quality: 
A. Distribution/Logistics
B. Purchasing/Supply
C. Integration
D. Operations

66. C
Integration. Members of a well-integrated supply chain have open lines of communication and are able to complete supply chain processes on time, within budget, and matching quality objectives. Integration in supply chain management involves ensuring that all supply chain members are working toward collective goals and participate in the free flow of information. Operations involves the day-to-day activities and processes in the supply chain and monitors such things as inventory levels, for example. Purchasing/Supply involves managing sources, materials, and prices that are required for the supply chain to create profit, maintain quality, and stay cost-effective. Distribution/Logistics focuses on the shipments and transportation of goods throughout the supply chain. 
SOURCE: OP:303 Discuss the nature of supply chain management
SOURCE: Wisner, J.D., Tan, K., & Leong, G.K. (2019). Principles of supply chain management (5th ed.)
[Lesson 1-4]. Boston, MA: Cengage Learning, Inc. 

67. A business that wants to maintain positive, long-term relationships with its vendors should 
A. automate ordering processes.
B. develop a competitive orientation.
C. share relevant information.
D. request volume discounts.

67. C
Share relevant information. To maintain favorable relationships with its vendors, a business should share relevant information. Open, frequent, and honest communication can build trust and respect, which facilitate long-term business relationships. A competitive orientation may help the business achieve short-term goals, but may damage long-term vendor relationships. Automating ordering processes and requesting volume discounts will not always help the business maintain long-term relationships with its vendors. 
SOURCE: OP:241 Maintain vendor/supplier relationships
SOURCE: Klugerman, Y. (2017, November 14). Top 7 ways to build and maintain strong vendor relationships.
Retrieved September 21, 2023, from https://feedvisor.com/resources/e-commerce-strategies/top-7ways-build-strong-relationships-vendors/ BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 17 

81. When a company uses process thinking to design a process, it should make sure that the process has 
A. an unlimited scope.
B. multiple process owners.
C. a goal.
D. a deadline.

81. C
A goal. Businesses use process thinking to define and develop a system to accomplish a specific goal or task. Every process should have a goal, and its outputs should be measured against that goal. Each individual process should also support the overall goals of an organization. A process doesn't have a specific deadline, since it is a technique used to achieve goals and meet deadlines. Each business process should have a single owner who is responsible for the output and functionality of the process. A business process should have a clearly defined, limited scope. 
SOURCE: OP:474 Discuss business process thinking and its impact
SOURCE: Pearson, S. (2021). Importance of process thinking in business management. Retrieved September
21, 2023, from https://tallyfy.com/process-thinking/ 

84. Peter is a manager for a company. When he informs the company that he is leaving, what should the company do to protect its digital assets? 
A. Remove backups of all of Peter's data and files.
B. Delete Peter's files immediately to ensure security.
C. Store Peter's personal information in a database.
D. Retrieve Peter's work-related usernames and passwords.

84. D
Retrieve Peter's work-related usernames and passwords. When an employee leaves a company, there is a security risk if that employee still has access to the company's digital assets. Peter's usernames and passwords to company social media accounts, websites, etc. should be retrieved and either deleted or changed. Removing backups of all of Peter's data and files is not practical because those data and files might be important to the company as a whole. Peter's files should not necessarily be deleted immediately because they might be needed by the company. Finally, storing Peter's personal information in a database will not necessarily protect its digital assets. 
SOURCE: OP:517 Comply with strategies for protecting business' digital assets (e.g., website, social media,
email, etc.) 
SOURCE: AuditBoard. (2021, June 9). How to protect your digital assets in 2022. Retrieved September 22,
2023, from https://www.auditboard.com/blog/how-to-protect-your-digital-assets/ BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 21 

85. Premiere Office Supplies used to make enough revenue through existing customer reorders, but lately, many customers have begun ordering from YourOffice, a new retailer. Therefore, Premiere Office Supplies had to change its sales process to increase revenue due to 
A. competition.
B. regulation.
C. technology.
D. growth.

85. A
Competition. Competition is one reason that businesses might need to change their processes. When YourOffice entered the market, Premiere Office Supplies had to change its sales process because it can no longer rely on its previous process (relying on reorders). While growth, technology, and regulation are also reasons that a business might need to change its processes, these reasons are not related to the given situation. 
SOURCE: OP:476 Explain the causes of business process changes
SOURCE: Gleeson, P. (2019, February 12). Factors that may cause change in an organization. Retrieved
September 21, 2023, from http://smallbusiness.chron.com/factors-may-cause-change-organization203.html 

87. Which of the following is an example of how technology can impact supply chain management: 
A. A new law is passed requiring distribution centers to follow additional safety regulations.
B. A consulting company hires 50 new entry-level information technology employees.
C. A major hurricane damages several storage facilities and causes delivery delays.
D. A manufacturing firm tracks its inventory using a digital warehouse management system.

87. D
A manufacturing firm tracks its inventory using a digital warehouse management system. Digital warehouse management systems help companies distribute products more efficiently by tracking inventory in real-time—a technology that allows for better supply chain management. Hiring new employees, weather events, and new laws are not examples of technology influencing supply chain management. 
SOURCE: OP:478 Describe the impact of technology on supply chain management
SOURCE: Plex DemandCaster. (2021, November 16). The impact of technology in supply chain management.
Retrieved September 21, 2023, from https://www.plex.com/blog/impact-technology-supply-chainmanagement 

92. A business analysis indicates that the TWB Corporation could save $125,675 a year in paper purchases if all its employees decreased photocopying activities by 15%. The analysis provides TWB with important information related to 
A. return on investment.
B. resale goods.
C. waste reduction.
D. efficiency levels.

92. C
Waste reduction. Businesses often collect and analyze information to reduce waste throughout their organizations. In the example, the waste involved the use of paper. By reducing waste, a business can save money, increase its profits, and often protect the environment. The analysis does not provide insight about the business's return on investment, efficiency levels, or resale goods. 
SOURCE: OP:327 Discuss the nature of business analysis
SOURCE: MeasureBusiness.com. (2008-2017). Business analysis toolkit. Retrieved September 21, 2023, from
http://www.measurebusiness.com/ 

93. At his company, Paul is responsible for making sure the organization is complying with its privacy policy. Which privacy principle is Paul fulfilling? 
A. Collection limitation
B. Accountability
C. Purpose specification
D. Openness

93. B
Accountability. Accountability involves ensuring that organizations are held responsible for their privacy policies. Organizations should establish at least one person who is in charge of monitoring compliance with these policies. Openness refers to being forthcoming about the existence and nature of privacy policies. Collection limitation means that companies should collect only the data that are necessary to conduct business. Finally, purpose specification means that the purpose of any information gathering should be determined at the time that it is collected. 
SOURCE: OP:441 Explain information privacy, security, and confidentiality considerations in business
SOURCE: UNCTADOnline. (2016, April 14). Data protection and privacy. [Video]. Retrieved September 21,
2023, from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6vNxslcf9AE BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 23 

95. Which of the following is a reason for a company to locate its manufacturing operations close to its target market: 
A. Quality standards are decreased if customers know the laborers personally.
B. Shipping costs tend to be lower if a product is manufactured closer to customers.
C. Packaging costs are greatly reduced in areas where only one language is used.
D. Labor costs tend to be lower in areas that have both customers and workers.

95. B
Shipping costs tend to be lower if a product is manufactured closer to customers. This is especially the case for heavy or large products. Even if raw materials need to be shipped to the manufacturing center from great distances, these raw materials are usually much cheaper and easier to ship than large manufactured items. Proximity to target markets also allows companies to respond more quickly to customer demands. Labor costs tend to be higher in areas where the local population can afford to purchase the products. Customers are not likely to accept poor quality from purchased products even if they know the people who work at a manufacturing plant. Packaging costs relating to which language is used are not likely to affect where manufacturing takes place. 
SOURCE: OP:480 Discuss global supply chain issues
SOURCE: Wisner, J.D., Tan, K., & Leong, G.K. (2019). Principles of supply chain management (5th ed.)
[Lesson 11-2g]. Boston, MA: Cengage Learning, Inc. 

97. Which of the following is a disadvantage of process thinking: 
A. It intentionally ignores past and future events.
B. It doesn't help solve complex challenges.
C. It lowers quality and customer loyalty.
D. It decreases profitability and efficiency.

97. A
It intentionally ignores past and future events. Process thinking involves focusing on the steps it takes to complete a task, as it seeks to achieve efficiency by setting standard operation procedures in place. With process thinking, the focus is on the specific tasks in front of you rather than the overall bigger picture. This empowers people to take small actions now, which can move them closer to larger goals not yet on the horizon. Because the focus is on the present, process thinking intentionally ignores past and future events, which is considered to be one of the disadvantages of process thinking. Three pros of process thinking are that it helps solve complex challenges, increases profitability and efficiency, and improves quality and customer loyalty. 
SOURCE: OP:474 Discuss business process thinking and its impact
SOURCE: Drew, C. (2023, July 11). What is process thinking? (Examples, pros, and cons). Retrieved
September 21, 2023, from https://helpfulprofessor.com/process-thinking/ BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 24 

98. Stress and fatigue are __________ factors that can affect business process design. 
A. government
B. human
C. technological
D. regulatory

98. B
Human. Business process design is influenced by human factors, such as stress and fatigue. A business process may not work if it causes stress to employees or if they are too fatigued to complete their work properly. These are not examples of technological, regulatory, or government factors. 
SOURCE: OP:475 Describe the factors that influence business process design
SOURCE: Taylor, H. (2017, September 26). Factors that affect process design. Retrieved September 21, 2023,
from http://www.ehow.com/list_7444011_factors-affect-process-design.html 

2. Which of the following is a benefit of establishing incident reporting procedures in the workplace: 
A. Employees use their judgment to determine if a report should be issued.
B. Managers who create these procedures are not required to follow up on incidents.
C. Managers who have information about incidents can investigate possible causes.
D. Employees cannot file official complaints if an incident is reported correctly.

2. C
Managers who have information about incidents can investigate possible causes. Establishing procedures for reporting workplace incidents is very important to promoting workplace safety. These procedures should allow for efficient communication of incidents that occur and provide management with the information they need to investigate the factors that led to the incident occurring. Therefore, reporting processes can lead to a decrease in workplace incidents. Incident reporting procedures should provide guidance about what types of incidents need to be reported, taking the decision out of the hands of employees. Although employees can still file complaints about workplace incidents, those incidents that resulted in timely, detailed reports can help clear up any issues about whether or not the company has created a dangerous work environment. Managers should always follow up on incidents that occur in the workplace. 
SOURCE: OP:012 Establish safety policies and procedures
SOURCE: Sheahan, K. (2020). Workplace safety procedures for an office. Retrieved August 11, 2023, from
https://smallbusiness.chron.com/workplace-safety-procedures-office-1752.html 

15. What can a business do to help prevent former employees from sharing confidential business strategies and knowledge with competitors? 
A. Require employees to sign non-disclosure agreements.
B. Acquire patents and copyright registrations for intellectual property.
C. Pay contingency fees to ensure lawyers are available when needed.
D. Require employees to maintain records of key knowledge.

15. A
Require employees to sign non-disclosure agreements. Requiring employees to sign non-disclosure agreements can help prevent former employees from sharing confidential knowledge with competitors. Requiring employees to maintain records of key knowledge does nothing to prevent them from sharing it. Patents and copyright registrations can protect formal product designs and proprietary information, but they do not provide the legal incentive to prevent former employees from sharing confidential information. Maintaining access to legal services does not help prevent former employees from sharing information. 
SOURCE: OP:155 Establish policies to protect company information and intangibles
SOURCE: The Justice Project. (2023). How to protect intangible business assets. Retrieved August 11, 2023,
from https://www.thejusticeproject.org/how-to-protect-intangible-business-assets/ 

17. Dion works in the production planning department of a company that makes machinery. This machinery is then sold to companies that use it to create vehicles. Dion's company's output is considered 
A. human resources.
B. consumer goods.
C. industrial goods.
D. intangible products.

17. C
Industrial goods. Outputs are categorized as industrial goods if they are sold to producers who will use them to make other products. Dion's company makes machinery that other companies use to create vehicles. Outputs are categorized as consumer goods if they are sold to ultimate consumers. Human resources refer to the people who work to produce goods and services. Intangible products are those that cannot be detected by the senses, such as education or health care. 
SOURCE: OP:017 Explain the concept of production
SOURCE: LAP-OP-017—Can You Make It? (Nature of Production)

21. The VOT Company's IT staff has developed a software program that will simplify several processes across multiple departments of the business. In simplifying these processes, the software will increase overall efficiency. Which of the following best describes the direct cause of these business process changes and improvements: 
A. Lower costs
B. New technology
C. Better return on investment
D. Industry trends

21. B
New technology. A new software program is a new form of technology. While it's true that costs may go down and return on investment may go up as a result of these business process changes, they are not the direct causes of the changes. In this situation, new technology is the direct cause of business process changes. There is no indication that this new technology is emblematic of a bigger industry trend. 
SOURCE: OP:476 Explain the causes of business process changes
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2022, December 26). Business process redesign (BPR): Definition, process, and
purpose. Retrieved August 11, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/b/business-processredesign.asp ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 6 

32. An internet and cable provider is considering whether to implement a new process that would require its customer service agents to work the phone lines for 24 hours a day instead of the previous 12 hours a day. What type of factor will most likely impact the design of this new process? 
A. Regulatory
B. Environmental
C. Human
D. Technological

32. C
Human. People can have a large impact on the design of a process. Stress, employee morale, and fatigue are common human factors that can influence process design. If the internet and cable company wants to increase its customer service phone line hours, it will need to consider that its employees may not be able to take on any extra work or may become fatigued from the extra hours. Regulatory and environmental factors that affect process design include government regulations and the political or social environment surrounding a company. Technological factors include the cost of necessary equipment or technology. 
SOURCE: OP:475 Describe the factors that influence business process design
SOURCE: Taylor, H. (2017, September 26). Factors that affect process design. Retrieved August 11, 2023,
from https://bizfluent.com/list-7444011-factors-affect-process-design.html 

35. A comprehensive report reveals that the Sabin Company can increase its data-entry outputs by 20% in a sixmonth period by installing the MMX software system. Sabin can use this type of business analysis to determine 
A. why it should evaluate work schedules.
B. how to increase its efficiency.
C. how to detect a problem.
D. why it should obtain new markets.

35. B
How to increase its efficiency. In this situation, the business is analyzing an “if, then” situation. If the company purchases a certain type of software, then it can increase its data-entry outputs. If the company increases its outputs, it is increasing its efficiency (productivity). How does the business increase its efficiency? It installs a specific type of software. The information does not indicate how to detect a problem or why the company should evaluate work schedules. A business uses a marketing analysis to determine why it should obtain new market segments. 
SOURCE: OP:327 Discuss the nature of business analysis
SOURCE: Enaohwo, O.M. (n.d.). 7 key ways a business process analyst can improve your company's output.
Retrieved August 11, 2023 from https://businessanalystlearnings.com/business-analystcareer/2017/9/21/7-key-ways-a-business-process-analyst-can-improve-your-companys-output 

36. When attempting to reduce costs, most businesses will first cut __________ costs. 
A. fixed
B. production
C. variable
D. operating

36. D
Operating. When attempting to reduce costs, most businesses will first cut operating costs, whether those costs are fixed or variable. Most businesses will not cut production costs unless they cannot cut operating costs any further. 
SOURCE: OP:024 Explain the nature of overhead/operating costs
SOURCE: LAP-OP-024—Watch Your (Over) Head (Overhead/Operating Costs)

47. Supply chain management attempts to control which of the following business activities: 
A. The buying and selling of stocks
B. Production, shipment, and distribution of products
C. Financial planning and managerial accounting
D. Human resources and communications

47. B
Production, shipment, and distribution of products. Supply chain management is a career area in which employees supervise the complete process of getting products into the marketplace—including the production, shipment, and distribution of products. Supply chain management does not specifically oversee the buying and selling of stocks, human resources, communications, financial planning, or managerial accounting; however, each of these business practices influences supply chain management in its own unique way. 
SOURCE: OP:303 Discuss the nature of supply chain management
SOURCE: Fernando, J. (2022, July 7). Supply chain management (SCM): How it works and why it is important.
Retrieved August 11, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/s/scm.asp ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 12 

59. When is it more economical for a business to lease rather than to buy a facility? 
A. When credit standing is high
B. When interest rates are low
C. When available cash is limited
D. When mortgage money is plentiful

59. C
When available cash is limited. Many new businesses have limited amounts of cash available to cover the costs of purchasing property, which usually include a down payment, closing costs, taxes, etc. On the other hand, the initial cash expense for leasing is often limited to a security deposit and the first rent payment. When cash is limited, it is usually more economical for businesses to lease rather than to buy a facility because it saves them money. If businesses have sufficient cash, it is more economical in the long run for them to buy rather than to lease, especially when interest rates are low, their credit standing is high, and mortgage money is plentiful. 
SOURCE: OP:028 Negotiate lease or purchase of facility
SOURCE: Miller, M. (2023, January 5). Buying vs leasing commercial real estate: Pros and cons of
each. Retrieved August 11, 2023, from https://www.valuepenguin.com/small-business/buying-vsleasing-commercial-real-estate 

61. Ada purchases jewelry and clothing from many different manufacturers and sells the items to customers in her boutique. What kind of buyer is Ada? 
A. Business use
B. Transformational
C. Wholesale
D. Retail

61. D
Retail. Retail buyers purchase goods from wholesalers or manufacturers to resell to consumers. Wholesale buyers purchase goods from manufacturers and other wholesalers to sell to retailers and businesses. Buying for business use involves purchasing items that are for use by the purchasing specialist's company. Purchasing specialists who buy items for transformation purchase raw materials and components that will be converted into finished products through some type of production process. 
SOURCE: OP:015 Explain the nature and scope of purchasing
SOURCE: LAP-OP-015—Buy Right (Purchasing)
ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 15 

82. Before beginning a new project, a manager who uses business process thinking would most likely 
A. examine the financial implications of the project to make sure it will be profitable.
B. create a list of things that employees should avoid doing during the project.
C. explain to employees the end result that the manager wants to achieve from the project.
D. determine the steps that employees need to follow to complete the project.

82. D
Determine the steps that employees need to follow to complete the project. Business process thinking is a method of thinking that emphasizes the importance of processes in business. Managers who use business process thinking would most likely focus on establishing the process that employees should follow before beginning a new project. While the end result is important in any project, managers who use business process thinking would place more emphasis on the process than the result when beginning a new project. They would not create a list of things employees should avoid doing during the project. Examining the financial implications of a project is important but does not describe business process thinking. 
SOURCE: OP:474 Discuss business process thinking and its impact
SOURCE: Drew, C. (2023, July 11). What is process thinking? (Examples, pros, and cons). Retrieved August
11, 2023, from https://helpfulprofessor.com/process-thinking/ 

86. Because operations managers control so much of a business's money, they must focus on 
A. keeping costs low.
B. hiring the best employees.
C. creating effective advertising campaigns.
D. generating publicity.

86. A
Keeping costs low. Because operations managers control so much of a business's money, they must focus on keeping costs low. Operations managers are not responsible for hiring employees, creating advertising campaigns, or generating publicity. 
SOURCE: OP:189 Explain the nature of operations
SOURCE: LAP-OP-189—Smooth Operations (Nature of Operations)

91. A small brick-and-mortar bookstore will benefit most from a supply chain that is designed to 
A. purchase books to fulfill requested orders.
B. stock large quantities of best sellers.
C. ship books to customers' homes.
D. use an electronic commerce center to handle orders.

91. A
Purchase books to fulfill requested orders. A small brick-and-mortar bookstore is more likely to benefit from purchasing books to fulfill requested orders from customers. A small store will not benefit from storing large quantities of books due to limited space and the high cost of carrying extra inventory. Since a brick-and-mortar store depends on customer visits to promote books, gifts, and other items, it is not likely to benefit from using an electronic commerce center or shipping books to customers' homes. 
SOURCE: OP:477 Explain the impact of supply chains on business performance
SOURCE: Anaplan. (2023). What is supply chain management? Retrieved August 11, 2023, from
https://www.anaplan.com/blog/what-is-supply-chainmanagement/https://www.anaplan.com/blog/what-is-supply-chain-management/ 

23. The five essential functions of supply chain management include planning, sourcing, making, delivering, and 
A. networking.
B. recruiting.
C. optimizing.
D. returning.

23. D
Returning. There are five essential functions of supply chain management (SCM): planning, sourcing, making, delivering, and returning. It may not be a business function that you think of often, but returning is a vital element of supply chain management. SCM seeks to create a seamless path of products back through a supply chain, from customers to distributors, manufacturers, or even suppliers. This is called reverse logistics. The returning function is unique because it serves a slightly different purpose than planning, sourcing, making, and delivering. Supply chain management’s ultimate goal is to meet customer demand, but the goal of returning—or reverse logistics—is to regain product value. Networking, optimizing, and recruiting are not essential functions of SCM. 
SOURCE: OP:303 Discuss the nature of supply chain management
SOURCE: LAP-OP-303—Top of the (Supply) Chain (Nature of Supply Chain Management)

27. To protect its social media accounts from being hacked, a company should make sure employees 
A. regularly update their computers and software.
B. are unable to post on social media.
C. use public Wi-Fi networks whenever possible.
D. use the same password for different accounts.

27. A
Regularly update their computers and software. To protect its social media accounts from being hacked, a company should make sure employees regularly update their computers and software. Software and systems are constantly improving, so keeping up to date on updates can protect the company from bugs, vulnerabilities, or hackers. Employees should not use the same password across different accounts. They should avoid using public Wi-Fi networks and use private or secured networks. An employee with authorized access is often required to post digital content on behalf of their company. 
SOURCE: OP:473 Evaluate strategies for protecting business' digital assets (e.g., website, social media, email,
etc.), customer data, and other protected information 
SOURCE: LinkedIn. (2023). What are the best ways to protect your digital assets? Retrieved January 9, 2024,
from https://www.linkedin.com/advice/0/what-best-ways-protect-your-digital-assets-skills-digitalstrategy 

29. Which of the following actions can lead to a potential safety issue in the workplace: 
A. Excessive exposure to loud noise
B. Parking in a nearly full parking lot
C. Turning on the air conditioner on a hot day
D. Unplugging a laptop when it is fully charged

29. A
Excessive exposure to loud noise. Excessive exposure to loud noise is a potential safety issue in the workplace, as it can lead to hearing impairments or other health problems. It is important for employees who are exposed to loud noises to wear protective equipment. Unplugging a laptop when it is fully charged, turning on the air conditioner on a hot day, and parking in a nearly full parking lot would not necessarily lead to safety issues in the workplace. 
SOURCE: OP:151 Identify potential safety issues
SOURCE: United States Department of Labor. (n.d.). Hazard identification and assessment. Retrieved January
19, 2024, from https://www.osha.gov/safety-management/hazard-Identification 

35. Which of the following is a way in which customers benefit from effective supply chains: 
A. Increased cash flow
B. Heightened transparency
C. Higher profits
D. Better product availability

35. D
Better product availability. Effective supply chains benefit customers, profitability, and business operations. Better product availability—along with lower prices, fewer product returns, and greater customer satisfaction— are ways in which effective supply chains benefit customers. Increased cash flow and higher profits are ways in which effective supply chains benefit business profitability. Heightened transparency is a way in which effective supply chains benefit business operations. 
SOURCE: OP:477 Explain the impact of supply chains on business performance
SOURCE: LAP-OP-477—Chain Reaction (Impact of Supply Chains on Business Performance)

38. A company aims to create 500 items every hour, but its machinery often breaks down and is time-consuming to fix. This scenario demonstrates how __________ affects process design. 
A. customer demand
B. human factors
C. technology
D. the regulatory environment

38. C
Technology. Business process design (BPD) refers to the creation of new processes or workflows from scratch to achieve a company's goals. There are several factors that can impact BPD, such as technology. For example, the cost of needed software or hardware can impact BPD. In this scenario, the company's machinery often breaks down and is time-consuming to fix, which negatively impacts the company's process design. This is not an example of how human factors, the regulatory environment, or customer demand affect process design. 
SOURCE: OP:475 Describe the factors that influence business process design
SOURCE: Taylor, H. (2017, September 26). Factors that affect process design. Retrieved January 9, 2024,
from https://bizfluent.com/list-7444011-factors-affect-process-design.html 

44. Which of the following statements best represents a business process redesign: 
A. It is often cheap and quick to implement.
B. It does not interrupt workflow or lead to layoffs.
C. It improves efficiency by increasing costs.
D. It completely overhauls key business processes.

44. D
It completely overhauls key business processes. Business process redesign (BPR) is a complete overhaul of a company's key business processes with the goal of improving key performance measures such as cost reduction and return on investment. A BPR aims to improve efficiency by reducing costs. BPRs may be expensive and time-consuming to implement. BPRs also can lead to layoffs and disrupt workflow. 
SOURCE: OP:476 Explain the causes of business process changes
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2022, December 26). Business process redesign (BPR): Definition, process, and
purpose. Retrieved January 9, 2024, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/b/business-processredesign.asp 

50. Which of the following is an example of a variable cost: 
A. Office supplies
B. Property taxes
C. Employee benefits
D. Sales commissions

50. D
Sales commissions. Operating costs are the ongoing, day-to-day expenses of running a business that are not directly related to production. Operating costs that fluctuate with changes in production (e.g., sales commissions) are called variable costs. When a company produces more of a product, variable expenses go up. When a company produces less of a product, variable expenses go down. Operating costs that do not increase or decrease with changes in production are called fixed costs (or fixed expenses). In other words, these are the expenses that must be paid no matter what. Examples of fixed expenses include employee benefits, property taxes, and office supplies and equipment. 
SOURCE: OP:024 Explain the nature of overhead/operating costs
SOURCE: LAP-OP-024—Watch Your (Over) Head (Overhead/Operating Costs)

52. If a business wants to develop an efficient operating system, its processes must be 
A. easily accessible and unreplicable.
B. replicable and tough to access.
C. clear and documented.
D. complicated and supported by tools.

52. C
Clear and documented. A business operating system refers to a company's unique way of doing things, often in the form of a company guidebook that details the what, when, why, and how regarding company policies. This can include how it operates, deals with customers, works in the market, etc. If a business wants to develop an efficient operating system, its processes must be clear, documented, replicable, supported by tools, and easily accessible. Efficient operating systems are not tough to access, complicated, or unreplicable. 
SOURCE: OP:022 Establish efficient operating systems
SOURCE: Colan, L. (2015, July 1). How to successfully build a business operating system for your company.
Retrieved January 22, 2024, from https://www.inc.com/lee-colan/building-your-business-operatingsystem.html 

66. A business is looking to refocus on its organizational goals by improving its internal processes and company culture and analyzing its internal environment. What business analysis technique is the company using? 
A. SWOT
B. MOST
C. PESTLE
D. CATWOE

66. B
MOST. MOST is short for Mission, Objectives, Strategies, and Tactics. MOST analysis is a way for companies to retain focus on their goals by analyzing and improving the plans, initiatives, internal processes, company culture, and internal environment of a company. A PESTLE analysis studies the key external factors (political, economic, sociological, technological, legal, environmental) that influence an organization. A SWOT analysis is a marketing tool that investigates a business’s strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats in an organized fashion. A CATWOE (Customers, Actors, Transformation Process, World View, Owner and Environmental Constraints) analysis provides a framework for analyzing and defining business stakeholder perspectives. 
SOURCE: OP:327 Discuss the nature of business analysis
SOURCE: Adesope, B. (2017, May 10). Top 5 techniques in business analysis. Retrieved January 9, 2024,
from https://www.batimes.com/articles/top-5-techniques-in-business-analysis 

71. Which of the following is a benefit of process thinking: 
A. It helps with setting achievable short-term goals.
B. It leads to processes being continually re-examined.
C. It focuses on the bigger picture.
D. It turns small tasks into larger, more complex tasks.

71. A
It helps with setting achievable short-term goals. Process thinking focuses on the steps needed to complete a task. When companies use process thinking, they may encourage their employees to focus on specific tasks in front of them rather than focusing on the bigger picture. To that end, process thinking allows people to set achievable short-term goals rather than focusing too much on the bigger picture. Process thinking breaks down large, complex tasks into small and manageable tasks that can be repeated until expertise is achieved. A con of process thinking is that it can lead to processes being continually re-examined to identify their weaknesses or suitability. 
SOURCE: OP:474 Discuss business process thinking and its impact
SOURCE: Drew, C. (2023, July 11). What is process thinking? (Examples, pros, and cons). Retrieved January
9, 2024, from https://helpfulprofessor.com/process-thinking 

75. Which of the following aims to regain product value when customers make returns: 
A. Voluntary recall
B. Backwards forecasting
C. Reverse logistics
D. Diminishing returns

75. C
Reverse logistics. Reverse logistics is the backward movement of products through the supply chain, from customers to distributors, manufacturers, or suppliers. Supply chain management’s ultimate goal is to meet customer demand, but the goal of returning—or reverse logistics—is to regain product value. Diminishing returns occurs during the second stage of production, when total product continues to increase but at a decreasing rate. Voluntary recall is the act of removing a product from the market and requesting that consumers return, destroy, or stop using the product due to potential risks. Backwards forecasting is a fictitious term. 
SOURCE: OP:303 Discuss the nature of supply chain management
SOURCE: LAP-OP-303—Top of the (Supply) Chain (Nature of Supply Chain Management)

90. Which of the following could lead to a security issue in the workplace: 
A. Using different passwords for work and personal accounts
B. Regularly updating the software on your computer
C. Clicking email links from an unrecognized email address
D. Checking personal social media accounts on your phone

90. C
Clicking email links from an unrecognized email address. When you receive an email from an unrecognized email address, it is important to proceed with caution. You should not click on the links in the email unless you’re able to confirm the email is legitimate and the links are safe. If the email seems suspicious and could be a phishing email, report it to your IT team. Regularly updating the software on your computer and using different passwords for work and personal accounts are ways to protect from security issues in the workplace. Checking personal social media accounts on your phone is not necessarily something that could lead to a security issue in the workplace. 
SOURCE: OP:154 Identify potential security issues
SOURCE: Impact Networking, LLC. (2023, February 15). 5 risky employee cybersecurity issues in the
workplace. Retrieved January 19, 2024, from https://www.impactmybiz.com/blog/risky-employeecybersecurity-issues-in-the-workplace 2024 HS ICDC ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 23 

92. Which of the following is a benefit of leasing a facility: 
A. Equity in the property builds over time
B. Inability to collect passive income
C. Control of the property
D. Fixed monthly cost

92. D
Fixed monthly cost. When leasing a facility, you rent the property for a set term and must renegotiate to continue using it. Some benefits of leasing a facility include that it has a fixed monthly cost, it gives you the flexibility to leave the property, and there's an opportunity to receive tax breaks for property expenses. Some disadvantages of leasing are that you have no control of the property and you are unable to collect passive income. Benefits of buying a facility include that it gives you control over the property, equity in the property builds over time, and the asset value appreciates over time. 
SOURCE: OP:028 Negotiate lease or purchase of facility
SOURCE: Miller, M. (2023, January 5). Buying vs leasing commercial real estate: Pros and cons of each.
Retrieved January 22, 2024, from https://www.valuepenguin.com/small-business/buying-vs-leasingcommercial-real-estate 

97. Conducting a breakeven analysis involves determining the point at which 
A. total costs and total revenue are equal.
B. total revenue is higher than total costs.
C. total revenue and total costs are inversely proportional.
D. total costs are higher than total revenue.

97. A
Total costs and total revenue are equal. A breakeven analysis refers to the process of determining the level at which revenues equal total costs. A breakeven analysis is used to determine the amount of revenue needed to cover total costs. Total costs being higher than total revenue, total revenue being higher than total costs, or total revenue and total costs being inversely proportional do not represent a breakeven analysis. 
SOURCE: OP:192 Conduct breakeven analysis
SOURCE: Schmidt, J. (2024). Break even analysis. Retrieved January 22, 2024, from
https://corporatefinanceinstitute.com/resources/accounting/break-even-analysis 

16. The business owner carried insurance on the building, office equipment, and inventory. This is an example of what type of operating cost? 
A. Interest expense
B. Legal expense
C. Fixed expense
D. Variable expense

16. C
Fixed expense. The costs of doing business that do not fluctuate with changes in sales volume are known as fixed expenses. Payments for such items as insurance, taxes, and interest are fixed amounts that the business owner must pay on a regular basis. Variable expenses may change depending on changes in the volume of sales and include such items as employee salaries, supplies, and advertising. Interest is the amount of money businesses pay for borrowing capital. Legal expenses include costs for lawyers and fees for government licenses. 
SOURCE: OP:024 Explain the nature of overhead/operating costs
SOURCE: LAP-OP-024—Watch Your (Over) Head (Overhead/Operating Costs)

17. Business process thinking is beneficial for project management because documented processes 
A. result in less efficient projects.
B. guarantee the project's success.
C. cannot be standardized or refined.
D. can be analyzed and repeated.

17. D
Can be analyzed and repeated. Business process thinking means thinking about a project or an assignment in terms of the processes that will be required to complete it. One of the primary benefits of process thinking is the ability to document (and then refine and repeat) the processes that are involved in a project. By documenting a process, the process can be improved and standardized so that the best possible results are achieved. Process thinking does not guarantee a project's success, but it does improve its chances. Process thinking results in more efficient projects, not less efficient projects. 
SOURCE: OP:474 Discuss business process thinking and its impact
SOURCE: Tallyfy. (2014-2021). Importance of process thinking in business management. Retrieved October 2,
2023, from https://tallyfy.com/process-thinking/ ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 5 

26. When negotiating a service or maintenance contract, how many suppliers should a business consider? 
A. Only the largest supplier
B. At least two
C. All that are available
D. No more than two

26. B
At least two. When negotiating a service or maintenance contract, a business should consider at least two suppliers. This will allow the business to obtain competitive prices, retain bargaining power, and learn more about each supplier. Attempting to negotiate with every possible supplier could prove overwhelming. Negotiating with only the largest supplier limits bargaining power and may not obtain the best price. Limiting negotiations to no more than two suppliers may also reduce competitive bargaining, particularly if there are additional suppliers who may offer better prices. 
SOURCE: OP:027 Negotiate service and maintenance contracts
SOURCE: LinkedIn. (n.d.). How do you negotiate contracts and fees with vendors and suppliers for your
events? Retrieved October 2, 2023, from https://www.linkedin.com/advice/0/how-do-you-negotiatecontracts-fees-vendors-suppliers ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 7 

29. To protect a company's website and social media accounts from being hacked, the company should make sure that employees with authorized access 
A. change passwords frequently.
B. use the same password.
C. cannot post digital content.
D. sign a user agreement.

29. A
Change passwords frequently. By requiring employees to change passwords frequently, a company can help prevent unauthorized access from occurring and avoid potential hacking and cyberattacks. Rather than requiring every employee to use the same password, each individual should be assigned their own unique login and password. Asking employees to sign a user agreement can help inform employees of proper internet and computer use and offer a company some legal protection, but they do not necessarily prevent unauthorized activity from occurring. An employee with authorized access is often required to post digital content on behalf of their company. 
SOURCE: OP:473 Evaluate strategies for protecting business' digital assets (e.g., website, social media, email,
etc.), customer data, and other protected information 
SOURCE: LinkedIn. (2023). What are the best ways to protect your digital assets? Retrieved October 3, 2023,
from https://www.linkedin.com/advice/0/what-best-ways-protect-your-digital-assets-skills-digitalstrategy 

42. What kind of product utility is most likely to result from production activities? 
A. Possession
B. Time
C. Place
D. Form

42. D
Form. Form utility is usefulness created by altering or changing the form or shape of a good to make it more useful to the consumer. This change takes place during the production process (e.g., production turns flour and other ingredients into bread). Place utility is usefulness created when goods or services are made available at the place where they are needed or wanted by consumers. Time utility is usefulness created when products are made available at the time they are needed or wanted by consumers. Possession utility is usefulness created when ownership of a product is transferred from the seller to the user. 
SOURCE: OP:017 Explain the concept of production
SOURCE: LAP-OP-017—Can You Make It? (Nature of Production)

52. A complicated, labor-intensive manufacturing process is limited by the number of hours that an employee can work without becoming fatigued. This is an example of how __________ factors influence process design. 
A. environmental
B. regulatory
C. technology
D. human

52. D
Human. People have a big impact on business processes. Stress, fatigue, and morale all influence how successful a process will be. When designing a business process, therefore, companies should consider how human factors will affect the process. Technology, regulations, and the environment surrounding the company or employee also impact business processes; however, this example best demonstrates how human factors impact process design. 
SOURCE: OP:475 Describe the factors that influence business process design
SOURCE: Taylor, H. (2017, September 26). Factors that affect process design. Retrieved October 2, 2023,
from https://bizfluent.com/list-7444011-factors-affect-process-design.html ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 13 

57. Which of the following budget information indicates that a business needs to make changes in order to control operations: 
A. Operating expenses are 5% less than budgeted.
B. Investment income is the same as last year.
C. Accounts receivable are 15% less than budgeted.
D. Credit card sales are 25% of total business.

57. C
Accounts receivable are 15% less than budgeted. Budget information is only useful if a business monitors it regularly and uses it to make changes in order to control operations. If a business finds that its accounts receivable are 15% less than budgeted, the business needs to make changes to increase sales or to reduce expenses. If the business does not use this information to make changes, it will end up losing money for the year and may need to obtain loans in order to continue operating. If credit card sales are 25% of total business and investment income is the same as last year, a business probably does not need to make changes. If operating expenses are 5% less than budgeted, the business will probably earn more profit. 
SOURCE: OP:030 Use budgets to control operations
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2022, August 5). What accounts receivable (AR) are and how businesses use them, with
examples. Retrieved October 2, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/a/accountsreceivable.asp 

58. A candy shop decides to source most of its candy from one supplier to decrease shipping and transportation costs. How can this supply chain decision negatively impact the shop? 
A. It reduces the amount of advertising that is needed.
B. It reduces the number of suppliers that need to be managed.
C. It exposes the shop to the risk of product unavailability.
D. It increases the cost of the shop's candy products.

58. C
It exposes the shop to the risk of product unavailability. One of the risks of sourcing a large amount of product from one supplier is that products may sometimes be unavailable. When a company sources a large amount of product from one supplier, it typically acquires the product for less. A reduction in advertising is generally determined by a company's business goals and is not typically impacted by changes to suppliers. Reducing the number of suppliers that need to be managed will have a positive impact since business costs are reduced. 
SOURCE: OP:477 Explain the impact of supply chains on business performance
SOURCE: Invest Northern Ireland. (n.d.). Choosing suppliers for your business. Retrieved October 2, 2023,
from https://www.nibusinessinfo.co.uk/content/choose-between-single-or-multiple-supplier-strategy 

60. What element of the marketing mix most directly deals with supply chain management? 
A. Price
B. Promotion
C. Place
D. Product

60. C
Place. Supply chain management (SCM) is the career area in which employees supervise the flow of goods and services as well as all processes that transform raw materials into final products, and getting those products into the marketplace. Place is the marketing mix element that deals with SCM because SCM involves the process of taking goods and services from their raw beginnings to customers. The place element of the marketing mix focuses on getting a product in the right place at the right time. The product element of the marketing mix focuses on what goods, services, or ideas a business will offer its customers. The price element deals with the amount of money marketers will ask in exchange for their products. The promotion element refers to the various types of communications that marketers use to inform, persuade, or remind customers of their products. 
SOURCE: OP:303 Discuss the nature of supply chain management
SOURCE: Fernando, J. (2022, July 7). Supply chain management (SCM): How it works and why it is important.
Retrieved October 2, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/s/scm.asp ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 15 

61. A business process change will likely be required if a company 
A. goes out of business.
B. merges with another company.
C. plans a meeting for Friday.
D. has a profitable quarter.

61. B
Merges with another company. An alteration to a company's current business process is considered a business process change. If a company undergoes a significant change, such as merging with another company, it requires a change in business procedures. Planning a meeting for Friday and having a profitable quarter are not reasons to change a business process. If a company goes out of business, it will no longer have business processes. 
SOURCE: OP:476 Explain the causes of business process changes
SOURCE: The Hackett Group. (n.d.). Enabling business process change. Retrieved October 2, 2023, from
https://www.thehackettgroup.com/business-process-change-hackett/ 

68. One way to gain more negotiating power when leasing a business space is to 
A. focus on a short-term lease.
B. settle on a rate of rent increase.
C. share the office space with another business.
D. choose a market that has plenty of space available.

68. D
Choose a market that has plenty of space available. When leasing a property, if the market is hot and there are limited spaces available, it will be more difficult for tenants to gain any negotiating power because of competition. Landlords can easily turn down requests because there are many other potential tenants. However, if the market has plenty of space available, the tenant has more negotiating power. There are many other options that the tenant could choose, so the landlord will be more willing to negotiate terms. Focusing on a short-term lease, settling on a rate of rent increase, or sharing the office space with another business are all important factors to discuss when negotiating leases, but they will not necessarily affect the negotiating power of the business. 
SOURCE: OP:028 Negotiate lease or purchase of facility
SOURCE: Nolo. (n.d.). Commercial leases: Negotiate the best terms. Retrieved October 2, 2023, from
https://www.nolo.com/legal-encyclopedia/commercial-leases-negotiate-best-terms-29754.html 

85. Which of the following is the primary tool that businesses use to determine the optimal selling price of a product: 
A. Break-even analysis
B. Economic forecast
C. Productivity report
D. Capital budget

85. A
Break-even analysis. A break-even analysis is a financial assessment that identifies various levels of sales that a business needs to achieve to reach the break-even point at various prices. The break-even point is the level of sales at which revenues equal total costs. When the business's revenues exceed the total costs, it is making a profit. The break-even analysis helps the business determine the optimal selling price for a product by examining the various sales levels in relation to their break-even points. A capital budget is a long-term plan for financing business projects and expansions. A productivity report summarizes the relationship between the business's inputs and its outputs. An economic forecast is a prediction of what may happen in a nation's economy. An economic forecast may be a factor that a business considers when it evaluates selling prices; however, the economic forecast is not a tool that the business uses to determine various break-even points. 
SOURCE: OP:192 Conduct breakeven analysis
SOURCE: Richards, D. (2019, October 2). How to do a breakeven analysis. Retrieved October 2, 2023, from
https://www.thebalancemoney.com/how-to-do-a-breakeven-analysis-1200834 

96. Wellston Industries wants to compare a current business situation with a target situation. Which of the following tools will help Wellston obtain the information that it wants: 
A. Mind map
B. Critical path
C. Decision tree
D. Gap analysis

96. D
Gap analysis. A business uses a gap analysis to compare the current status of an activity or process with the desired outcome for that activity or process. Businesses use gap analyses to evaluate many types of business functions and activities including necessary skills, training, technology, and profitability. A mind map is a creative-thinking technique that involves generating ideas by making associations. A decision tree is a method that businesses often use to facilitate the decision-making process. It involves using a tree-shaped image in which each branch of the tree represents a possible occurrence or outcome. Critical path refers to a project management tool that illustrates all activities needed to complete a task in the order in which they need to be performed. 
SOURCE: OP:327 Discuss the nature of business analysis
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2023, July 24). What is a gap analysis? Retrieved October 2, 2023, from
https://www.investopedia.com/terms/g/gap-analysis.asp 

16. Which of the following elements is included in a quality-management plan: 
A. Standards
B. Risks
C. Change
D. Schedule

16. A
Standards. Part of a quality-management plan is choosing and implementing standards for how quality will be measured. Otherwise, it's difficult to know whether the project has met expectations. Scheduling, changes, and risks are all aspects of project planning that are covered in other parts of the project plan. 
SOURCE: OP:001 Develop project plan
SOURCE: LAP-OP-001—Chart Your Course (Developing a Project Plan)

17. A business buying certain office products from a specific vendor that delivers at predetermined times and guarantees a set price for one year is an example of using the __________ purchasing method. 
A. competitive-bid
B. lowest-bidder
C. standing-order
D. blank-check

17. C
Standing-order. Businesses often negotiate a long-term price from a specific vendor for various staple items such as office supplies. The vendor guarantees the price and delivers the products at regular intervals, such as every other day or twice a week. This is an example of the standing-order purchasing method because the vendor automatically delivers the predetermined amount at a predetermined time for a guaranteed price. The business does not need to call the vendor each time it needs an order of copy paper or toner. The competitivebid method involves obtaining several prices before placing an order, often with the vendor that offered the lowest bid. The blank-check method involves allowing some vendors to deliver goods without negotiating a price. 
SOURCE: OP:016 Place orders/reorders
SOURCE: University at Buffalo. (2023). Standing orders. Retrieved August 10, 2023, from
https://www.buffalo.edu/administrative-services/managing-procurement/ereq/standing-orders.html 

19. Joanna is a purchaser for 193 Inc. and forgets to purchase a large order of shipping materials. What will most likely happen as a result of this mistake? 
A. Orders will increase.
B. The client's order will be delayed.
C. Productivity will increase.
D. Inventory will go down.

19. B
The client's order will be delayed. Because there are no materials to ship the order, the client's order will not be able to be shipped in time. Productivity will decrease, and inventory will increase. Orders will not be affected, although fulfillment times may increase. 
SOURCE: OP:247 Explain the impact of the purchasing process on productivity
SOURCE: Murray, M. (2019, June 25). Measuring purchasing performance. Retrieved August 9, 2023,
from http://logistics.about.com/od/strategicsupplychain/a/measure_purchasing.htm 

45. Ford Motor Company purchased tires from one tire company to be put on all automobiles in its manufacturing plants. This is an example of __________ purchasing. 
A. resale
B. retail
C. dispersed
D. industrial

45. D
Industrial. Industrial purchasing is the process of buying goods and services for internal consumption in the business or conversion into a final product. Retailers purchase goods for resale to the ultimate consumer. Dispersed buying is purchasing from many vendors, which can lead to merchandise variety, alternate sources of supply, and competition between sources. 
SOURCE: OP:015 Explain the nature and scope of purchasing
SOURCE: BCM. (2022, April 26). Industrial consumer: What is their purchasing decision process like?
Retrieved August 9, 2023, from https://www.bcm.marketing/en/bcm-blog/industrial-consumer/ 

68. A clothing manufacturer builds quality into its operating system, placing responsibility on each employee. This process is known as quality 
A. inspection.
B. guarantee.
C. delivery.
D. assurance.

68. D
Assurance. This clothing manufacturer is using quality assurance. Quality assurance is a process businesses use to prevent defective products from being created, not just to eliminate or correct them after they've already been produced. Quality inspection is a process businesses use to check for defects after products have been produced. Quality guarantee and quality delivery are not traditional terms used in operations or quality control. 
SOURCE: OP:189 Explain the nature of operations
SOURCE: LAP-OP-189—Smooth Operations (Nature of Operations)
FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 16 

81. Taylor notices that a sharp cutting tool was left on the floor after some boxes were opened in the receiving area. He should immediately 
A. ignore it.
B. try to find out who left it there.
C. pick it up and put it away.
D. notify his supervisor.

81. C
Pick it up and put it away. This is a safety hazard that Taylor can easily take care of himself before someone gets hurt. Leaving a sharp tool out is an example of poor housekeeping. If it happens often, the supervisor should be aware of it so that employees can be reminded to observe safety rules. Trying to find out who left it there or ignoring it does not correct the problem. 
SOURCE: OP:007 Follow safety precautions
SOURCE: Tarlengco, J. (2023, July 27). Warehouse safety. Retrieved August 9, 2023,
from https://safetyculture.com/topics/warehouse-safety/ FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 19 

43. Cutting costs to boost profitability may result in 
A. higher product quality.
B. fewer employee layoffs.
C. a drop in employee morale.
D. an increase in productivity.

43. C
A drop in employee morale. One of the simplest ways to maximize profits is to minimize expenses. If a business can make the same amount in sales but spend less money doing it, it will have more money in hand to either pay its owners, or shareholders, or reinvest back into the company. While cutting costs may boost profitability, it can have some negative effects, such as employee layoffs; a drop in employee morale, productivity, and efficiency; reduced employee wages or benefits; and reduced product quality. Fewer employee layoffs, an increase in productivity, and higher product quality are not typical results of a business cutting costs to boost profitability. 
SOURCE: OP:190 Discuss the role of ethics in operations
SOURCE: LAP-OP-190—Above Board (Ethics in Operations)
2024 HS ICDC FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 11 

44. Abeytu sent requests for price quotes to seven different chemical companies and is waiting to review the suppliers’ proposed prices before making a selection. Abeytu is conducting 
A. negotiations.
B. blanket ordering.
C. competitive bidding.
D. forecasts.

44. C
Competitive bidding. Abeytu is conducting competitive bidding, which involves sending out a request for bids, reviewing proposed prices (bids), and selecting the best supplier for the job, based on cost or overall terms. Negotiating is the process of one party reaching an agreement with another party to meet specific needs or wants. To forecast means to predict something, such as sales or trends. A blanket purchase order is a special kind of purchase order normally used only for fairly inexpensive goods or services the business uses regularly. Abeytu is not forecasting, blanket ordering, or negotiating in this scenario. 
SOURCE: OP:015 Explain the nature and scope of purchasing
SOURCE: LAP-OP-015—Buy Right (Purchasing)

63. To manage her project resource needs, Neveah used a digital system that made accurate estimates based on algorithms. Which of the following tactics did Neveah use to estimate project resources: 
A. Bottom-up estimating
B. Group decision-making techniques
C. Three-point estimating
D. Project management software

63. D
Project management software. If it is available to you, project management software can be extremely helpful in managing resources. The software can take all of your information and make accurate estimates based on algorithms. This type of software can help your estimates to be more accurate and save you time; however, it is often expensive and not readily available. Group decision-making techniques involve working with others as a team to improve the accuracy of estimates. Bottom-up estimating is a method of estimating resources by adding up estimates for smaller components of the project. Three-point estimating considers the ways uncertainty and risk can affect estimates. 
SOURCE: OP:003 Identify resources needed for project
SOURCE: LAP-OP-003—Get What You Need (Identifying Project Resources)
2024 HS ICDC FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 16 

65. After completing a team project, Makai asks the other group members about their experiences when completing the project. What aspect of the project is Makai measuring? 
A. Quality of work
B. Scope
C. Team satisfaction
D. Schedule

65. C
Team satisfaction. Evaluating team satisfaction involves surveying team members about their experiences and perspectives regarding the project. Makai is not evaluating how his team hit key deadlines; therefore, he is not evaluating their project schedule. He is also not evaluating the quality, or degree of excellence, of the work itself. A project’s scope is what it should and should not include. There is no evidence Makai is evaluating what was actually done for the project. 
SOURCE: OP:521 Evaluate project success
SOURCE: LAP-OP-521— Making the Grade (Evaluating Project Success)

27. Forming an evaluation team; defining the product, service, or material; and determining the business requirements are all steps of 
A. vendor selection.
B. financial analysis.
C. marketing research.
D. customer targeting.

27. A
Vendor selection. Selecting a vendor requires several important steps, including forming a team that will evaluate each vendor; defining the product, service, or material that is needed from a vendor; and determining the business's requirements for a vendor contract. These are all steps of vendor selection, not financial analysis, marketing research, or customer targeting. 
SOURCE: OP:161 Select vendors
SOURCE: Bucki, J. (2019, May 2). How to select the right vendor for your business. Retrieved September 28,
2023, from https://www.liveabout.com/the-successful-vendor-selection-process-2533820 

71. Amy helps her company control expenses by which of the following actions: 
A. Using suggestion selling
B. Giving customers personalized service
C. Coming back from lunch and breaks on time
D. Bringing lunch from home instead of buying it

71. C
Coming back from lunch and breaks on time. The company pays Amy and other employees to put in a full day of work. It loses money when employees take extended lunches and breaks. Using suggestion selling and giving customers personalized service contributes to increased sales. Bringing lunch helps Amy control her personal expenses. 
SOURCE: OP:025 Explain employee's role in expense control
SOURCE: LAP-OP-025—Buck Busters (Employee Role in Expense Control)

84. A project's quality-management plan includes strategies to ensure the quality of the deliverables as well as the quality of 
A. the project's purpose.
B. employee education.
C. the project itself.
D. organizational investors.

84. C
The project itself. A project’s quality-management plan includes strategies to ensure the quality of the deliverables as well as the quality of the project itself. At the end of the project, managers want to look back and say that it ran smoothly. A project’s quality-management plan cannot ensure the quality of the project’s purpose—those who are assigning the project are responsible for that. It also cannot ensure the quality of employee education or organizational investors. 
SOURCE: OP:001 Develop project plan
SOURCE: LAP-OP-001—Chart Your Course (Developing a Project Plan)

91. “Big Q” focuses on 
A. designing and developing products.
B. improving factory conditions.
C. conforming to specifications.
D. exceeding customer expectations.

91. D
Exceeding customer expectations. “Big Q” focuses on ingraining quality into every aspect of the organization to meet and exceed customer expectations. “Little Q” focuses on conforming to specifications. Neither approach to quality management specifically focuses on improving factory conditions or designing and developing products, although those may certainly be important goals of a quality-management system. 
SOURCE: OP:163 Identify quality-control measures
SOURCE: LAP-OP-163—Take Control (Quality-Control Measures)

96. Madison is in charge of purchasing the raw materials and components necessary for her company to manufacture computers. Madison is buying for 
A. wholesale.
B. resale.
C. business use.
D. transformation.

96. D
Transformation. Some purchasing specialists such as Madison buy items for transformation. They purchase raw materials and components that will be converted into finished products through some type of production process. These purchasing specialists, also called industrial buyers, typically work for manufacturing companies. When a business purchases items for resale, it buys things to sell to other businesses or consumers. Wholesalers are one type of business that buys items for resale. Goods and services purchased for business use are used by the purchasing agent's own company. This includes such items as equipment, equipment parts, tools, uniforms, furniture, supplies, and repair and maintenance services. 
SOURCE: OP:015 Explain the nature and scope of purchasing
SOURCE: LAP-OP-015—Buy Right (Purchasing)

2. What is often the best way for a business to increase its profit? 
A. Lower taxes
B. Raise prices
C. Reduce expenses
D. Improve sales

2. C
Reduce expenses. Decreasing expenses is perhaps the best way that businesses can help increase profit. Businesses have control over many of their expenses and can take measures to reduce them. For example, they can eliminate some free services and encourage workers to turn off lights and equipment when not being used, in order to save money on energy costs. Raising prices will not increase profits unless customers are willing to pay the higher prices. Tax rates are regulated by government. If businesses improve sales, they might increase their profits if the rate of sales is proportionately higher than the expense involved. 
SOURCE: OP:024 Explain the nature of overhead/operating costs
SOURCE: LAP-OP-024—Watch Your (Over) Head (Overhead/Operating Costs)

10. Although the primary purpose of an invoice is to bill a customer for goods and services, invoices can also help the business monitor its customers' 
A. purchasing habits.
B. buying motives.
C. annual incomes.
D. personal attitudes.

10. A
Purchasing habits. An invoice is the formal, printed record of a sale that includes all necessary information of a sales transaction. The information includes the buyer, the seller, items purchased, quantities, prices, delivery date, credit, discount terms, etc. Because invoices record detailed information about sales transactions, businesses can review their invoices to analyze their customers' buying habits. By reviewing invoices, a business can determine the best-selling products and the products that are not moving, which helps the business make decisions about its product mix. Invoices do not reveal information about customers' personal attitudes, annual incomes, or buying motives. 
SOURCE: OP:184 Track invoices
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2023, June 8). What is an invoice? Its parts and why they are important. Retrieved
August 4, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/i/invoice.asp 

12. To protect customer data such as credit card information, businesses should 
A. keep sensitive records encrypted.
B. use a shared server to store information.
C. require that all customers show an ID.
D. accept payments in cash only.

12. A
Keep sensitive records encrypted. Encrypting sensitive data such as credit card information, phone numbers, and addresses can prevent security breaches that can lead to information theft. Accepting payments in cash only may prevent security breaches but would most likely hurt a business' sales. Requiring customers to show a form of identification would not prevent sensitive information from being leaked or stolen. Businesses should use their own dedicated server for storing sensitive data. Using a shared server is a risk because other people or companies may have access to the information stored on it. 
SOURCE: OP:518 Comply with strategies to protect digital customer data (e.g., information about customers,
customers' credit-card numbers, passwords, customer transactions) 
SOURCE: Dragilev, D. (2022, April 19). Small business fraud prevention tips. Retrieved August 4, 2023,
from https://quickbooks.intuit.com/r/operations-technology/how-to-protect-your-small-business-fromfraud/ 

28. What type of purchase order do businesses use for recurring purchases from the same supplier in which the purchased item and price are set, but the quantity and delivery schedule may vary? 
A. Contract purchase order
B. Blanket purchase order
C. Standard purchase order
D. Planned purchase order

28. B
Blanket purchase order. Blanket purchase orders are created when the item and negotiated price are set with a supplier or vendor, but the quantity and schedule may vary from order to order. These are most often used for recurring orders of the same item in circumstances where the item quantity is likely to vary based on need. Often there is a negotiated set of terms and conditions including spending limits and duration of agreed pricing. A standard purchase order is used for a single purchase in which the terms and conditions apply only to a single transaction. A planned purchase order is often used in situations with recurring purchases in which the item, price, quantity, and delivery schedule are all negotiated and set. A contract purchase order is a formal agreement between buyer and supplier in which terms are set but no actual purchase is required. Contract purchase orders act like contracts for future purchases but do not necessarily require any purchases to be made. 
SOURCE: OP:250 Describe types of purchase orders
SOURCE: Poskitt, C. (2019, September 27). The know-it-all-guide to purchase orders. Retrieved August 4,
2023, from https://www.turbinehq.com/blog/guide-to-purchase-orders#Chapter-4 

29. When handling cleaning chemicals, hotel housekeeping attendants should 
A. keep a log of ingredients found in the cleaning materials.
B. avoid using eye goggles or ventilation masks.
C. avoid direct skin contact and wear disposable gloves.
D. complete a purchase order when inventory is low.

29. C
Avoid direct skin contact and wear disposable gloves. To protect from bacteria transmission and skin irritation, hotel housekeeping attendants should wear disposable gloves when using cleaning chemicals. Housekeeping attendants generally alert their manager when cleaning-chemical inventory is low and do not complete the purchase order. When mixing or using toxic or strong cleaning chemicals, eye goggles or ventilation masks may need to be used. It is not necessary for attendants to keep a log of ingredients found in the cleaning materials; the ingredients are listed on the cleanser storage containers. 
SOURCE: OP:134 Practice safe and sanitary handling/disposal of wastes/recyclables
SOURCE: OSHA. (n.d.). Housekeeping. Retrieved August 4, 2023, from
https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/etools/hospital/housekeeping/housekeeping.html 

31. When Kayleigh lost her hotel keycard, she went to the front desk to ask for a replacement. The hotel staff remotely deactivated the lost card and issued her a new one. The ability to reprogram keycards allows hotels to 
A. recover a greater number of lost keycards.
B. screen potential guests for security risks.
C. reduce break-ins and ensure room security.
D. improve after-hours service for guests.

31. C
Reduce break-ins and ensure room security. The ability to reprogram keycards allows hotels to strengthen their overall security by reducing the chance of room break-ins. Room keys that can be remotely deactivated decrease the chance of a potential thief gaining access to a guest room. Keycards that can be reprogrammed do not necessarily help hotels screen potential guests for security risks, recover more lost keycards, or improve after-hours services. 
SOURCE: OP:115 Explain security considerations in the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: Koorsen Fire & Security. (2016, September 16). How the hospitality industry tackles security risks.
Retrieved August 4, 2023, from https://blog.koorsen.com/2016/09/how-the-hospitality-industrytackles-security-risks HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 8 

32. What action should hotel employees take when a fire occurs and they determine that they cannot contain it themselves? 
A. Relocate gas-powered equipment to the middle of the room
B. Use an A-B-C fire extinguisher
C. Shut off air conditioners
D. Open windows to let the fire out of the building

32. C
Shut off air conditioners. When fires occur, hotel employees should determine whether they can control the fire themselves. If not, they need to contact the fire department, shut off the air conditioning to keep the smoke from filtering into other parts of the property, close windows and doors to keep the fire from spreading, and shut off the fuel to gas-powered equipment. Since the employees have already determined that they cannot contain the fire themselves, they should not take time to attempt using fire extinguishers. 
SOURCE: OP:119 Handle emergency situations in hospitality and tourism
SOURCE: Setupmyhotel.com. (2023). Fire emergency plan and procedure - hotel. Retrieved August 4, 2023,
from https://setupmyhotel.com/train-my-hotel-staff/securityandloss/722-hotel-fire-emergency-planand-procedures.html 

55. Why is it important for companies to make inventories of their digital information? 
A. Because most employees don't use their computers wisely
B. So that the company can keep tabs on what employees are doing online
C. So that the information is readily accessible when it is needed
D. To prevent unethical IT professionals from stealing company data

55. C
So that the information is readily accessible when it is needed. Companies should make inventories of their digital information so that it can be easily accessed when it is needed and so that no important data are lost. It is not necessarily true that employees don't use their computers wisely. Most employees use their computers appropriately and responsibly. Companies do not make inventories of their information to prevent IT professionals from stealing company data or to keep tabs on what employees are doing online. 
SOURCE: OP:517 Comply with strategies for protecting business' digital assets (e.g., website, social media,
email, etc.) 
SOURCE: Auditboard. (2021, June 9). How to protect your digital assets in 2022. Retrieved August 4, 2023,
from https://www.auditboard.com/blog/how-to-protect-your-digital-assets/ 

66. Which of the following is a benefit of evaluating project success: 
A. Figuring out who is to blame for shortcomings
B. Keeping stakeholders from knowing about mistakes
C. Eliminating the need for customer satisfaction
D. Identifying the need for future projects

66. D
Identifying the need for future projects. After evaluating your project results, you might find that your project did not solve all of the problems that it intended to solve. In this case, your project might have created the need for more projects. Figuring out who is to blame for shortcomings, keeping stakeholders from knowing about mistakes, and eliminating the need for customer satisfaction are not benefits of evaluating project success. 
SOURCE: OP:521 Evaluate project success
SOURCE: LAP-OP-521—Making the Grade (Evaluating Project Success)

70. What type of information does a business's purchasing department need to obtain from the sales department in order to function properly? 
A. Accurate forecasts
B. Operating expenses
C. Pricing policies
D. Production needs

70. A
Accurate forecasts. Purchasing depends on other departments for information and expertise so it can do its job well. Purchasing needs to obtain accurate sales forecasts from the sales department before ordering goods and scheduling deliveries. Purchasing relies on sales forecasts, which are predictions of future sales over a specific period of time, to buy the right amount of goods. Pricing policies are guidelines regulating the range of prices for goods and services that businesses offer to customers. Information about production needs is provided by the production department. Information about operating expenses is provided by the finance department. 
SOURCE: OP:015 Explain the nature and scope of purchasing
SOURCE: LAP-OP-015—Buy Right (Purchasing)

80. What is one way that businesses can prevent internal computer fraud? 
A. Install electronic sensing systems
B. Hire professional security guards
C. Use closed-circuit television monitors
D. Provide employees with specialized training

80. D
Provide employees with specialized training. Businesses can help prevent computer fraud by making sure employees understand how to operate their hardware and software and how to use and protect their own identification codes or passwords. Employees also should be trained not to allow unauthorized individuals to see the computer screen, and to exit a confidential file or turn off the computer if they need to leave their terminals. Using closed-circuit television monitors, hiring professional security guards, and installing electronic sensing systems are ways of preventing shoplifting rather than computer fraud. 
SOURCE: OP:013 Explain routine security precautions
SOURCE: TowneBank. (2023). Training employees to prevent fraud. Retrieved August 3, 2023,
from https://www.townebank.com/business/resources/security/training-employees/ 

93. One of the reasons a business may monitor technology use is to 
A. measure electricity usage.
B. delete unnecessary files.
C. discourage time theft.
D. check employees' work.

93. C
Discourage time theft. One of the reasons a business may monitor technology is to discourage time theft, or employees wasting time on personal tasks (emails, games, etc.) instead of being productive in their job tasks. A business would not use technology monitoring to delete unnecessary files, check employees' work, or measure electricity usage. 
SOURCE: OP:190 Discuss the role of ethics in operations
SOURCE: LAP-OP-190—Above Board (Ethics in Operations)

1. After the conclusion of a project, it is important to communicate lessons learned with 
A. focus groups.
B. relevant stakeholders.
C. friends and relatives.
D. your competitors.

1. B
Relevant stakeholders. Once you’ve completed an analysis of project success, the next step is to share lessons learned with stakeholders so they can learn from those lessons too. It is not necessary to share the lessons you’ve learned with competitors or friends and relatives. Focus groups are an important part of the initial datagathering process, but they do not usually need to be involved in communicating lessons learned. 
SOURCE: OP:521 Evaluate project success
SOURCE: LAP-OP-521— Making the Grade (Evaluating Project Success)

2. When is the best time to identify resources needed for a project? 
A. Before defining the project
B. After securing funding
C. After the project ends
D. Before the project begins

2. D
Before the project begins. When you’re starting a new project, you might just want to jump right into it. However, it is important to identify the resources you’re going to need during the planning stage— before the project begins. One reason this is important is because the necessary resources might affect how you carry out the project. Identifying resources after securing funding and after the project ends is too late. You need to define the project before identifying the necessary resources. 
SOURCE: OP:003 Identify resources needed for project
SOURCE: LAP-OP-003—Get What You Need (Identifying Project Resources)

10. A business’s emergency evacuation plan can be more effectively implemented if 
A. there is only one marked exit.
B. there is a clear chain of command.
C. employees are insured.
D. there is minimal institutional knowledge.

10. B
There is a clear chain of command. Every emergency evacuation plan should include a specific chain of command. This creates a clear structure and reduces the risk of confusion or disorganization, which is especially important in the case of an emergency. There should be multiple exits to any building, not one. Whether employees are insured or not should not be relevant to an emergency evacuation plan. Institutional knowledge, also called tribal knowledge, is the sum of information possessed by an organization and its employees. This typically refers to operational knowledge, and should have little bearing on the effectiveness of an emergency evacuation plan. 
SOURCE: OP:527 Identify factors affecting evacuation procedures/protocols
SOURCE: OSHA. (2023). Evacuation plans and procedures eTool. Retrieved December 1, 2023, from
https://www.osha.gov/etools/evacuation-plans-procedures/eap/elements 

19. Employees should __________ to prevent identity theft. 
A. have a bad credit history
B. use secure web browsers
C. have only one password
D. keep physical records

19. B
Use secure web browsers. Identity theft occurs when an individual obtains and uses another person's information (e.g., credit cards) without that person's consent. To reduce the risk of identity theft, people should use secure web browsers to make purchases. Because internet sales transactions often require a person to provide credit card information, it is important to make sure that the web browsers are secure. Physical records do not prevent identify theft; information kept on paper is also vulnerable to theft. It is recommended to use many unique passwords online, rather than one password. Having a bad credit history is a potential consequence of identity theft, not a preventative measure. 
SOURCE: OP:654 Explain the nature of identity theft controls
SOURCE: FTC. (2022, April 26). Protecting personal information: A guide for businesses. Retrieved December
1, 2023, from https://www.ftc.gov/business-guidance/resources/protecting-personal-informationguide-business 

41. Which of the following is a strategy that businesses can use to prevent customer credit card fraud: 
A. Save credit card numbers online
B. Use similar passwords for all log-ins
C. Perform an internal financial audit
D. Request customer identification

41. D
Request customer identification. It is important for businesses to compare customers' credit cards to their identification. This ensures that the cards they are using belong to them. An internal financial audit deals with financial activities related to the company, not the customer. Therefore, it would not help prevent customer credit card fraud. Businesses should not save credit card numbers online because if a data breach occurs, there is a higher chance that fraud will occur. Rather than using the same password for multiple sites, you should make unique passwords for each site. 
SOURCE: OP:653 Identify credit card fraud prevention methods
SOURCE: Underwood, J. (2023, August 30). How to prevent credit card fraud. Retrieved December 1, 2023,
from https://www.forbes.com/advisor/credit-cards/how-to-prevent-credit-card-fraud/ 

44. A producer of garden tools or snow shovels might use a(n) __________ production process to make these products since the products are not in demand all year long. 
A. continuous
B. intermittent
C. mass
D. batch

44. B
Intermittent. An intermittent production process is one in which production periodically stops and restarts. A producer of garden tools or snow shovels, for instance, might use an intermittent production process to make these products since the products are not in demand all year long. A continuous production process, on the other hand, turns out products in steady demand without stopping, like toothpaste and cellular service. Mass production means producing products in large quantities, and it is used in the production of such outputs as jeans, cars, and appliances. Batch production means producing items in specific amounts, or batches, and is often used to meet specific or short-term market needs. 
SOURCE: OP:017 Explain the concept of production
SOURCE: LAP-OP-017—Can You Make It? (Nature of Production)

54. Tracking invoices can help businesses 
A. increase their cash on hand.
B. identify billing errors.
C. evaluate their vendors’ performance.
D. market their products.

54. B
Identify billing errors. An invoice is the formal, printed record of a sale that includes all necessary information of a sales transaction. The information includes the buyer, the seller, items purchased, quantities, prices, the delivery date, credit, discount terms, etc. Detailed invoices allow businesses to identify and rectify any billing errors in an efficient and timely manner. Invoices are a financial tool. Therefore, they do not help businesses market products. Tracking invoices does not necessarily lead to increased cash on hand—the primary goal of invoices is to archive financial transactions between businesses. Businesses do not track invoices to evaluate the vendors' performance levels. 
SOURCE: OP:184 Track invoices
SOURCE: Isac, D. (2023, October 11). How to track invoices and payments. Retrieved December 1, 2023, from
https://spp.co/blog/how-to-keep-track-of-invoices-and-payments/ 

55. Before developing a strategy to protect its digital assets, a business must 
A. take inventory of its digital assets.
B. register ownership of its digital assets.
C. create protective agreements.
D. establish internal protocols.

55. A
Take inventory of its digital assets. Before a business can take steps to protect its digital assets, it must first create a comprehensive list of all digital assets. Once it has accounted for all assets, the business can now develop a protection strategy. Creating protective agreements, registering ownership, and establishing internal protocols are all strategies to protect digital assets—therefore, taking inventory of the actual assets comes before these actions. 
SOURCE: OP:517 Comply with strategies for protecting business' digital assets (e.g., website, social media,
email, etc.) 
SOURCE: Murray, J. (2020, July 21). How to protect your company's digital assets. Retrieved December 1,
2023, from https://www.thebalancemoney.com/how-to-protect-company-digital-assets-4153375 2024 HS ICDC HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 14 

56. Childress and Sons receives a shipment of five tons of lumber from Janson Lumber Inc. once every three months. This is an example of a(n) __________ purchase order. 
A. seasonal
B. open
C. standing
D. advance

56. C
Standing. Standing orders involve sending products at set intervals. This type of purchase order is ideal for businesses that need the same amount of an item on a regular basis. In the example, Janson Lumber provides a specific amount of materials at specific intervals. Therefore, this is a standing purchase order. A seasonal order is an order that is placed for seasonal merchandise, such as snow shovels or beach umbrellas. An open order is an order for staple goods that is placed with one of several available vendors that can meet the business's immediate requirements. An advance order is a normal order that is placed now with delivery requested for a future time 
SOURCE: OP:250 Describe types of purchase orders
SOURCE: Procurify. (2023, October 23). All you ever need to know about purchase orders. Retrieved
December 1, 2023, from https://www.procurify.com/blog/purchase-orders-all-you-need-to-know/ 

59. What should you do to safely dispose of household hazardous waste? 
A. Dump it in a storm drain
B. Pour it down the sink or toilet
C. Throw it in an empty dumpster
D. Bring it to a drop-off facility

59. D
Bring it to a drop-off facility. Household hazardous waste includes items like lighter fluid, oil-based paint, flammable materials, batteries, bleach, smoke detectors, etc. These items are often labeled with terms such as danger, caution, and poison. The best way to safely dispose of these materials is to drop them off at a hazardous waste facility or a mobile collection event. When in doubt, it’s best to check online to determine proper disposal procedures. Pouring it down the sink or toilet or dumping it in a storm drain causes great harm to the environment and human health. Throwing it in an empty dumpster is not recommended, as the product could spill and leak. 
SOURCE: OP:134 Practice safe and sanitary handling/disposal of wastes/recyclables
SOURCE: SWACO. (2023). Household hazardous waste. Retrieved November 21, 2023, from
https://www.swaco.org/195/Household-Hazardous-Waste 

68. If a project’s time frame or budget decreases, its __________ may need to become more limited. 
A. bottom line
B. champions
C. scope
D. work breakdown structure

68. C
Scope. Projects are constrained by three common factors—scope, time, and budget. Scope refers to what the project’s deliverable includes and—more importantly—does not include. Project managers often visualize these three constraining factors as a triangle with equal sides. If any factor changes, the others will be affected. If a project’s time frame or budget decreases, its scope may need to become more limited. A work breakdown structure details the breakdown of the project’s workload into smaller, more manageable parts. A project’s champion is its sponsor. The bottom line is a business’s net income. 
SOURCE: OP:158 Explain the nature of project management
SOURCE: LAP-OP-158—Projected to Win (Nature of Project Management)

85. What is the first step to building a hotel distribution strategy? 
A. Test distribution strategy
B. Identify target audience
C. Compare key metrics
D. Identify business objectives

85. D
Identify business objectives. The first and most important step to building a distribution strategy is to identify business objectives. The subsequent steps should all align with a business’s objectives. Identifying the target audience, testing the distribution strategy, and comparing key metrics are all steps that come after the identification of business objectives. This is so that these activities can refer back to the business objectives. 
SOURCE: OP:529 Explain the concept of place (distribution) in the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: Fredericks, L. (2023, October 20). The complete guide to hotel distribution systems. Retrieved
December 1, 2023, from https://www.cvent.com/en/blog/hospitality/hotel-distribution-channels 

93. After administering first aid, it is important to 
A. perform CPR.
B. contact medical personnel.
C. move the injured person.
D. check the scene for safety.

93. B
Contact medical personnel. After administering first aid, you should always contact medical professionals (via 91-1 or equivalent hotline) to ensure that the injured or ill person receives proper medical treatment. This is true even if the injured or ill person is showing signs of recovery. Checking the scene for safety should be done prior to administering first aid. Moving the injured person can be dangerous depending on the situation. Performing CPR is a component of first aid and not something that occurs after administering first aid. 
SOURCE: OP:657 Provide first-aid
SOURCE: American Red Cross. (2023). First aid steps. Retrieved December 1, 2023, from
https://www.redcross.org/take-a-class/first-aid/performing-first-aid/first-aid-steps 

11. To make it easier to track invoices, businesses should consider 
A. only accepting electronic payments.
B. reminding clients of deadlines.
C. limiting their client base.
D. investing in invoice tracking software.

11. D
Investing in invoice tracking software. Invoice tracking software makes it easy to manage invoices automatically and integrate the invoicing process with the rest of business operations. Only accepting electronic payments will not necessarily make it easier to track invoices. Limiting a client base is not necessarily a smart business decision and will not help the business grow. Reminding clients of deadlines is a good idea, but it will not necessarily make the tracking process easier. 
SOURCE: OP:184 Track invoices
SOURCE: Laurinavicius, T. (2016, December 6). How to track your invoices: The best tools. Retrieved
September 27, 2023, from https://www.huffingtonpost.com/tomas-laurinavicius/how-to-track-yourinvoice_b_12798332.html 

15. You've just come up with a great tagline for your company and want to use it on all marketing materials. Before publishing the new tagline, you should get it 
A. trademarked.
B. notarized.
C. patented.
D. audited.

15. A
Trademarked. A trademark is a symbol, design, or word used to identify a good or service and registered with the government to prevent use by others. A patent is the legal protection of an invention or a process granted by government to its owners for a certain number of years. Notarizing authenticates a document legally (normally used for titles, affidavits, depositions, etc.). Audits are used to verify a company's accounts, records, and financial data. 
SOURCE: OP:153 Protect company information and intangibles
SOURCE: USPTO. (2023, February 6). Trademark, patent, or copyright. Retrieved September 26, 2023, from
http://www.uspto.gov/trademarks-getting-started/trademark-basics/trademark-patent-or-copyright 

21. Employees can help prevent losses from price-ticket switching by 
A. putting individual price tickets on goods.
B. being familiar with regular product prices.
C. using more than one price ticket on goods.
D. using cost codes on all price tickets.

21. B
Being familiar with regular product prices. Employees who are familiar with regular prices will notice an item that seems to be priced too low. They can take a moment to verify the price without offending an honest customer. A dishonest customer will realize the business is watching for attempts at fraud. The use of cost codes on price tickets and the use of more than one price ticket are not effective prevention practices because price-ticket switching can still go unnoticed if employees are not familiar with the prices. Not using price tickets on items creates unfavorable shopping conditions for customers and requires additional time for salespeople to check prices. 
SOURCE: OP:013 Explain routine security precautions
SOURCE: Elements Magazine. (2022, May 24). 5 common retail fraud tactics (and how to prevent
them). Retrieved September 26, 2023, from https://www.pbahealth.com/elements/5-common-retailfraud-tactics-and-how-to-prevent-them/ 

24. Determine whether the following statement is true or false: Employees must be taught how to use equipment properly and the potential dangers of not doing so. 
A. False; employees understand the hazards of misusing equipment.
B. False; employees know which equipment is dangerous and which is not.
C. True; well-trained employees always use safety precautions.
D. True; the business is responsible for creating a safe work environment.

24. D
True; the business is responsible for creating a safe work environment. When there is potentially dangerous equipment in the workplace, employees should be instructed in the safe use of the equipment and the potential danger to themselves and others of not doing so. Even when such training is given, employees may become careless or forget to use safety precautions. It is not always obvious that equipment can be hazardous. 
SOURCE: OP:007 Follow safety precautions
SOURCE: Simplified Safety. (2023). How to create a safe working environment. Retrieved September 26, 2023,
from https://simplifiedsafety.com/blog/how-to-create-a-safe-working-environment/ 

35. Human error is one of the leading causes of cybersecurity breaches. To protect customer data from being stolen or leaked by accident, hospitality and tourism companies should 
A. assume that employees are incapable of protecting customer data.
B. trust their employees to adequately protect customer data.
C. avoid hiring anyone who can't pass a lie detector test.
D. implement cybersecurity training for employees.

35. D
Implement cybersecurity training for employees. Many cybersecurity breaches occur because of human error from within an organization. Employees may unwittingly leak sensitive customer data or fall prey to internal phishing scams. For this reason, it is essential that hospitality and tourism companies implement cybersecurity training for employees. Employees should be educated on the proper handling of private information as well as how to recognize signs of suspicious activity. Companies should not simply trust that employees will adequately protect customer data; they should educate their employees so that they are properly prepared. At the same time, they should not assume that employees are completely incapable of protecting customer data. Most employees are willing and able to learn how to better protect customer data. Lie detector tests are not typically used when hiring employees. 
SOURCE: OP:518 Comply with strategies to protect digital customer data (e.g., information about customers,
customers' credit-card numbers, passwords, customer transactions) 
SOURCE: Social Tables. (2023). Cybersecurity for hotels: 6 threats just around the corner from your
property. Retrieved September 27, 2023, from https://www.socialtables.com/blog/hospitality/cybersecurity-hotels/ 

38. The first step in protecting a business's digital assets is taking an inventory. This includes what information is on what media, where the information is located, and 
A. how the information will be used.
B. costs associated with the information.
C. how the information is accessed.
D. order of information importance.

38. C
How the information is accessed. An effective digital inventory records what information is on what media, where the information is located, and how it is accessed. The order of importance, costs associated with the information, and how the information will be used are not as important while inventorying digital assets. 
SOURCE: OP:517 Comply with strategies for protecting business' digital assets (e.g., website, social media,
email, etc.) 
SOURCE: Fastmetrics. (n.d.). How to properly manage digital assets. Retrieved September 27, 2023, from
https://www.fastmetrics.com/blog/security/how-to-manage-digital-assets/ 

50. Owen and his lawyer have an agreement that protects the sensitive information that Owen shares. According to the agreement, Owen's attorney can't share his personal information with anyone else. This is an example of an agreement regarding 
A. security.
B. confidentiality.
C. transparency.
D. privacy.

50. B
Confidentiality. Confidentiality refers to the agreement of an individual or party not to share the sensitive information of another individual or party. Most lawyers have confidentiality agreements with their clients that protect the sensitive details of the clients' cases from being shared with others. While similar to confidentiality, privacy and security differ in important ways. Privacy is the right of an individual to keep their information to themselves, while security is the protection of sensitive data or items that are housed in a database or other storage facility. Transparency refers to openness or honesty. This example best describes a confidentiality agreement. 
SOURCE: OP:441 Explain information privacy, security, and confidentiality considerations in business
SOURCE: Milano, S. (2018, June 29). What is the meaning of confidentiality in the workplace? Retrieved
September 26, 2023, from https://work.chron.com/meaning-confidentiality-workplace-21886.html 

65. Creating a project's communications plan includes determining 
A. when deliverables will be due.
B. how project changes will be handled.
C. what channels will be used.
D. how much the project will cost.

65. C
What channels will be used. Creating a communications plan includes determining what channels will be used for sending information throughout the work team. Determining how project changes will be handled is part of the change-management plan. Determining how much the project will cost happens a bit later in the projectplanning process. Determining when deliverables will be due is part of the project-scheduling process. 
SOURCE: OP:001 Develop project plan
SOURCE: LAP-OP-001—Chart Your Course (Developing a Project Plan)

68. Which of the following is an example of a reorder: 
A. Sims Steakhouse received six out of eight cases of glassware on Monday because the vendor ran out of
stock. B. The Powell Company did not order enough paper towels for the month, so it ordered an additional four
cases. C. Mr. and Mrs. Travis ordered a dining-room set in a wood finish that the furniture store doesn't normally
carry. D. Henry's Hardware Store ordered 35 model-N1 hammers and 2 cases of ¼” stainless steel bolts from

68. B
The Powell Company did not order enough paper towels for the month, so it ordered an additional four cases. A reorder involves ordering items that the company has previously ordered. The Powell Company placed a reorder because it submitted a second order for the same product (paper towels) to its vendor. A backorder occurs when a vendor ships part of an order on time and the rest of the order later when the stock is available. Mr. and Mrs. Travis placed a special order, which is a request for a custom item that a vendor does not normally carry in stock. Henry's Hardware Store placed a regular order, which involves providing the vendor with the specifications of items that the business wants to order. 
SOURCE: OP:250 Describe types of purchase orders
SOURCE: Indeed. (2022, September 30). How to calculate reorder level (with steps and example). Retrieved
September 27, 2023, from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/reorder-level 

69. The SleepRight Motel has three floors of guest rooms, each with their own direct exit outside. The evacuation protocol for the motel is to direct guests out of their rooms and down the nearest flight of stairs. The Crowne Plaza Hotel is a fifteen-floor luxury hotel with fourteen floors of guest suites and one floor of ballrooms and administrative offices. The evacuation plan for the Crowne Plaza Hotel is to direct guests into the hallways to the nearest elevator or flight of stairs, depending on the circumstance. These examples demonstrate how __________ affects evacuation procedures in the hospitality industry. 
A. severe weather
B. building layout
C. guest count
D. government regulation

69. B
Building layout. Building size and layout greatly influence the specific evacuation procedures and protocols for a hotel or motel. Smaller buildings, such as motels, may have simpler evacuation plans, while larger hotels and resorts may have more complicated procedures to ensure visitor safety. Guest count, government regulation, and severe weather may also affect evacuation procedures; however, they are not demonstrated in this example. 
SOURCE: OP:527 Identify factors affecting evacuation procedures/protocols
SOURCE: Smartdraw. (1994-2023). Evacuation plan. Retrieved September 27, 2023, from
https://www.smartdraw.com/evacuation-plan/ 

73. It is important for hotel employees to wear disposable gloves when emptying trash containers to 
A. avoid direct contact with sharp objects and bacteria.
B. reduce the risk of inhaling dangerous fumes.
C. prevent damage to the floors and furniture.
D. decrease the risk of security breaches.

73. A
Avoid direct contact with sharp objects and bacteria. Wearing disposable gloves when emptying trash containers prevents direct skin contact with bacteria, sharp objects (e.g., broken glass), and dangerous chemicals that can harm the employee's hands and spread blood-borne pathogens. Wearing disposable gloves does not prevent damage to floors and furniture, decrease the risk of security breaches, or reduce the risk of inhaling dangerous fumes. To reduce exposure to fumes, employees should wear ventilation masks. 
SOURCE: OP:134 Practice safe and sanitary handling/disposal of wastes/recyclables
SOURCE: Farina, D.A. (2017, April 6). How to safely dispose of office trash. Retrieved September 27, 2023,
from https://www.safeopedia.com/how-to-safely-dispose-of-office-trash/2/5545 

95. Which of the following is a security consideration for people employed in the hospitality and tourism industry: 
A. Unauthorized individuals found on the scene
B. Patron calling back to determine whether an item is in lost and found
C. Spilled water on a marble floor
D. Patron choking on food

95. A
Unauthorized individuals found on the scene. The presence of unauthorized people is a threat to the security of patrons, employees, and to the hospitality and tourism business. Individuals responsible for security will need to quickly determine the reason that the unauthorized people are present. Spilled water and a choking patron are safety threats. A phone call about an item in lost and found is not a safety or security issue. 
SOURCE: OP:115 Explain security considerations in the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: Arora, A. (2019, March 27). Safety and security in the hospitality industry - Challenges and possible
counters. Retrieved September 27, 2023, from https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/safety-securityhospitality-industry-challenges-possible-aman-arora/ 

8. What do most businesses negotiate when placing an order with a supplier? 
A. Who pays the transportation charges
B. Who prepares the goods for shipment
C. Which transportation service to use
D. Which warehouse is the most modern

8. A
Who pays the transportation charges. When placing orders with suppliers, businesses usually negotiate who pays the transportation charges. In some cases, businesses prefer to pay the transportation charges and own the goods while they are in transit. In other cases, it might be better for the business to have the supplier pay the charges and own the goods until they are delivered to the business. Because transportation charges may be high, negotiating who pays them is often a key factor when placing an order. Businesses usually are not concerned with which transportation service is used, who prepares the goods for shipment, or which warehouse is the most modern. 
SOURCE: OP:016 Place orders/reorders
SOURCE: Murray, M. (2018, September 27). Negotiation in the purchasing process. Retrieved August 2, 2023,
from https://www.liveabout.com/negotiation-in-the-purchasing-process-2221379 MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 3 

36. An employee notifying a government agency that their business is violating health and safety regulations is an example of 
A. unethical behavior.
B. verbal communication.
C. reporting noncompliance.
D. spreading gossip.

36. C
Reporting noncompliance. Certain government agencies have developed health and safety regulations that businesses are expected to follow to provide employees with a safe work environment. If businesses do not comply with these regulations, they should be reported for noncompliance so the necessary action can be taken to solve the problem and make the workplace safe for employees. The goal is to correct dangerous situations and keep the workplace safe. An employee notifying a government agency is not an example of spreading gossip, unethical behavior, or verbal communication. In fact, the employee is exhibiting ethical behavior. Also, the employee may have notified the agency in writing, which is nonverbal communication. 
SOURCE: OP:005 Report noncompliance with business health and safety regulations
SOURCE: OSHA Education Center. (2023). How to report labor violations. Retrieved August 2, 2023, from
https://www.oshaeducationcenter.com/articles/reporting-labor-violations/ 

81. The sum of the operating and direct expenses required to make a product is its 
A. gross cost.
B. price markup.
C. break-even point.
D. total cost.

81. D
Total cost. The sum of the operating and direct expenses required to make a product is its total cost. A product must be priced higher than the total cost for the business to make a profit. A price markup is the difference between total cost and selling price. A break-even point happens when total expenses equal total sales. Gross cost is not a typical business term. 
SOURCE: OP:024 Explain the nature of overhead/operating costs
SOURCE: LAP-OP-024—Watch Your (Over) Head (Overhead/Operating Costs)

86. A food manufacturer is hoping to improve the efficiency of its production processes. What should the company do first? 
A. Analyze its current processes
B. Acquire necessary resources
C. Communicate changes to stakeholders
D. Draft proposed process changes

86. A
Analyze its current processes. The first step in streamlining work processes is analyzing current processes. Without analyzing the state of its current production processes, the food manufacturer won't know what areas need to be improved. Drafting process changes, acquiring the necessary resources, and communicating changes to stakeholders are all steps in the streamlining process that come after analyzing the current processes. 
SOURCE: OP:355 Streamline work processes
SOURCE: Mind Tools. (2023). Improving business processes. Retrieved August 2, 2023, from
https://www.mindtools.com/adosrrm/improving-business-processes 

90. A company's manager did not protect confidential information about a conflict between two employees. What is a likely consequence of this action? 
A. Loss of clients
B. Claims of workplace discrimination
C. Costly lawsuits
D. Damaged workplace environment

90. D
Damaged workplace environment. When information about employee relations is not kept confidential, negative consequences can occur. While disclosing information about a conflict is not illegal, it can be damaging to the workplace culture and environment. People will feel that they cannot trust management, and they will not feel unified or cooperative. Disclosing this type of confidential information will not necessarily lead to loss of clients, costly lawsuits, or claims of workplace discrimination. 
SOURCE: OP:441 Explain information privacy, security, and confidentiality considerations in business
SOURCE: Cushman, C. (2021, April 29). The importance of confidentiality in HR. Retrieved August 2, 2023,
from https://www.connectpayusa.com/blog/the-importance-of-confidentiality-in-hr 

99. To help ensure ethical business operations, businesses should make __________ an important characteristic to look for in employees. 
A. kindness
B. integrity
C. attention to detail
D. physical fitness

99. B
Integrity. To help ensure ethical business operations, businesses should make integrity an important characteristic to look for in employees. This means that businesses should attempt to hire honest individuals with high moral character. Physical fitness, kindness, and attention to detail will not necessarily make an employee more ethical. 
SOURCE: OP:190 Discuss the role of ethics in operations
SOURCE: LAP-OP-190—Above Board (Ethics in Operations)

3. Which of the following is an example of qualitative data: 
A. Time logs
B. Test grades
C. Interviews
D. Sales projections

3. C
Interviews. Qualitative data are those that rely on subjective judgment to evaluate quality. Since interviews do not necessarily provide any empirical data and are based on person-to-person interaction, subjective judgement is required to derive information. Sales projections, test grades, and time logs are all examples of quantitative data. 
SOURCE: OP:521 Evaluate project success
SOURCE: LAP-OP-521—Making the Grade (Evaluating Project Success)

5. Equipment, supplies, and time are examples of 
A. scope.
B. algorithms.
C. resources.
D. principles.

5. C
Resources. A resource is any item that is used to accomplish another activity, such as equipment, supplies, and time. You need resources for all types of projects—even the simplest project. Without resources, you would not be able to achieve the project goal. Principles are standards. Scope is what a project will and will not include. An algorithm is a process or set of rules to be followed in calculations or other problem-solving operations, especially by a computer. 
SOURCE: OP:003 Identify resources needed for project
SOURCE: LAP-OP-003—Get What You Need (Identifying Project Resources)
2024 HS ICDC MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 2 

27. To best respond to the many disruptions a supply chain might face, supply chain teams must work to improve their 
A. marketing.
B. collaboration.
C. insurance offering.
D. hiring practices.

27. B
Collaboration. Collaboration—a joint effort between two or more parties—is a crucial component of supply chains. Because supply chains can face a variety of disruptions (e.g., natural disasters, global pandemics), it is important that supply chain teams improve their collaboration, which will help them respond to these disruptions. Effective collaboration helps streamline communication and efforts, minimizing waste and delays. Improving marketing, hiring practices, and insurance offerings are not necessarily ways that supply chain teams can best respond to supply chain disruptions. 
SOURCE: OP:444 Explain the benefits of supply chain collaboration
SOURCE: GEP. (2021, July 16). Guide to supply chain collaboration – what, why, and how. Retrieved
September 20, 2023, from https://www.gep.com/blog/technology/complete-guide-to-supply-chaincollaboration-what-why-and-how 2024 HS ICDC MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 7 

79. Which of the following statements about projects is true: 
A. Projects have a distinct beginning and end.
B. All projects are large and complex.
C. Only large projects require planning.
D. Projects do not have a distinct end.

79. A
Projects have a distinct beginning and end. A project is any type of undertaking, or task, that has a distinct beginning and end and creates a unique good or service. Projects can be simple, individual efforts or large, complex undertakings. No matter the size or nature of the projects, they all require planning. Planning involves deciding what will be done and how it will be accomplished. 
SOURCE: OP:519 Plan project
SOURCE: LAP-OP-519—Plan On It! (Planning Projects)

9. Rent, salaries, and advertising are all examples of 
A. fixed costs.
B. cost of goods sold.
C. variable costs.
D. operating expenses.

9. D
Operating expenses. Operating expenses are the costs of running a business. They may be variable or fixed but do not include the costs of items purchased for resale, or the cost of goods sold. Fixed costs are business costs that are not affected by changes in sales volume. An example is rent. Variable costs are business costs that change according to changes in sales volume. An example would be increased salary expense due to the hiring of more salespeople. 
SOURCE: OP:024 Explain the nature of overhead/operating costs
SOURCE: Kenton, W. (2023, August 24). Operating expense (OpEx) definition and examples. Retrieved
September 18, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/o/operating_expense.asp MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 3 

36. Warehousing and shipping methods are operations considerations related to 
A. expense control.
B. maintenance needs.
C. logistics.
D. scheduling.

36. C
Logistics. Operations are the day-to-day activities for continued business functioning. Logistics refers to the function of operations that manages the flow of goods and services from production to consumption. Logistics includes all the people, information, and processes involved in storing (e.g., type of warehouse) and transporting goods (e.g., shipping method). Scheduling is the production activity that establishes the timetable to be followed in production. Maintenance needs refer to the routine maintenance and repair of business facilities and equipment. The operations function controls many activities within the business, which means that this function encounters a lot of expenses incurred by the business. Therefore, expense control is an important operations activity because it focuses on efficiency and keeping the business's costs low for its day-to-day activities. 
SOURCE: OP:189 Explain the nature of operations
SOURCE: LAP-OP-189--Smooth Operations (Nature of Operations)

57. During the execution-and-monitoring stage of project management, the project manager's job is to 
A. secure enough funding to complete the project.
B. assign roles to team members.
C. make sure the project stays on track.
D. deliver the project's final product.

57. C
Make sure the project stays on track. During the execution-and-monitoring stage of project management, the actual work of the project is performed. The project manager's job at this point is to make sure the project stays on track and to take corrective measures if it doesn't. Delivering the final product occurs during the closing stage. Securing funding for the project is often the project champion's task and occurs before the project is authorized. Assigning roles to team members occurs during the planning-and-development stage. 
SOURCE: OP:158 Explain the nature of project management
SOURCE: LAP-OP-158--Projected to Win (Nature of Project Management)

82. The electric grinder you use to grind castings has an on-off switch that does not work properly. You feel that the tool is unsafe and should be repaired. What should you do? 
A. Ask a coworker for help.
B. Report it to your supervisor.
C. Attempt to fix it yourself.
D. Use it until the switch no longer works.

82. B
Report it to your supervisor. All unsafe conditions, unsafe acts, and injuries should be reported immediately to the appropriate supervisor. Employees should never try to fix a hazard if they don't know how to repair it. Using a tool that is not in good working order endangers you and others. Asking a coworker for help will not solve the problem. 
SOURCE: OP:007 Follow safety precautions
SOURCE: Atlantic Training. (n.d.). Workplace safety tips: A comprehensive resource. Retrieved September 18,
2023, from https://www.atlantictraining.com/safety-tips/workplace-safety-tips.php 

88. Which of the following is a result of evaluating vendor performance: 
A. More defects in the supply chain
B. Fewer opportunities for communication
C. Less cooperation from the vendor
D. Better overall risk management

88. D
Better overall risk management. Most businesses depend on the continuous flow of supplies to survive; if this flow is interrupted because of issues with a vendor, problems for the company will follow. Evaluating vendor performance ensures that the vendor is reaching company expectations, and makes sure that the vendor is delivering quality supplies within the desired time frame. This reduces potential risks for the company. Evaluating vendor performance leads to fewer defects in the supply chain--not more. When a company evaluates its vendors, it increases the communication between company and vendor, usually leading to more cooperation from the vendor, not less. 
SOURCE: OP:162 Evaluate vendor performance
SOURCE: Xometry. (2023, February 9). 5 key factors to consider when conducting a supplier
evaluation. Retrieved September 18, 2023, from https://www.xometry.com/resources/procurement/conducting-a-supplier-evaluation 

