Entrepreneurship 2024 Exams

39. Which of the following types of internal work teams do many businesses use to recognize product opportunities on a continuous basis: 
A. Cross-functional
B. Production
C. Homogenous
D. Independent-matrix

39. A
Cross-functional. To remain competitive in the marketplace, businesses often develop systematic, ongoing processes to help them recognize opportunities to fulfill a market's unmet needs and wants. Cross-functional work teams consist of a variety of people who have different skills and experiences, and who often work in different company departments. Group diversity provides different perspectives, which often sparks creativity to identify product opportunities. Homogenous, production, and independent-matrix are not terms normally used to describe a product-development work team. 
SOURCE: PM:136 Create processes for ongoing opportunity recognition
SOURCE: Bottorf, C., & Organ, C. (2022, August 8). What are cross-functional teams? Everything you need to
know. Retrieved August 11, 2023, from https://www.forbes.com/advisor/business/cross-functionalteams/ 

72. Which of the following is an example of a product line: 
A. Philadelphia Cream Cheese
B. A1 Steak Sauce
C. Kraft meats
D. Capri Sun

72. C
Kraft meats. Meats are one of Kraft Food’s many product lines. Product lines are groups of related product items. A1 Steak Sauce, Philadelphia Cream Cheese, and Capri Sun are all product items within Kraft’s product lines. A product item is an individual good, service, or idea that a business offers for sale. 
SOURCE: PM:003 Explain the concept of product mix
SOURCE: LAP-PM-003—Mix and Match (The Nature of the Product Mix)

90. Express Limited is planning to enlarge its product mix of paper goods that includes paper plates, greeting cards, and gift wrap. Which of the following would Express Limited be most likely to add to the business's product mix: 
A. Hardware
B. Notebooks
C. Clothing
D. Lamps

90. B
Notebooks. Notebooks are a paper product and would, therefore, fit into the product mix—the particular assortment of products that a company offers to meet the needs of its market(s) and its company goals. Lamps, hardware, and clothing would not be compatible with the lines of paper goods. 
SOURCE: PM:006 Plan product mix
SOURCE: Corporate Finance Institute. (2023, April 19). Product mix. Retrieved August 11, 2023, from
https://corporatefinanceinstitute.com/resources/management/product-mix/ ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 21 

94. A unique selling proposition answers which of the following customer questions: 
A. “Why is this good or service a great value for me?”
B. “What is the name of this product?”
C. “Why should I buy from you instead of someone else?”
D. “Who makes this product?”

94. C
"Why should I buy from you instead of someone else?" A unique selling proposition answers this question for a customer—"Why should I buy from you instead of someone else?" It demonstrates what is special about the product, what benefits it provides that competitors can't. A unique selling proposition doesn't necessarily include the name of the product, the maker of the product, or the reasons why the product is a good value. 
SOURCE: PM:272 Identify company's unique selling proposition
SOURCE: LAP-PM-272—Stand Out (Unique Selling Proposition)
ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 22 

11. Why might a company choose an expansion product-mix strategy? 
A. Because it can help limit production costs
B. Because a product has lost its appeal to customers
C. Because it attracts a new target market
D. Because it offers customers complementary products

11. D
Because it offers customers complementary products. A business may expand its product mix by adding additional product items or lines. There are a number of reasons why a business may choose an expansion product-mix strategy, including to offer customers complementary products. For example, the Apple Store offers a variety of accessories to go along with its iPhone, including cases, screen covers, and chargers. A company might remove a product from its product mix (contraction) because it has lost appeal to customers. A company may choose to alter the products in its product mix to help limit production costs, as altering existing products is less expensive than developing a new product. Attracting a new target market is a reason why companies might use a trading-up strategy. 
SOURCE: PM:003 Explain the concept of product mix
SOURCE: LAP-PM-003—Mix and Match (The Nature of the Product Mix)

21. Ahmed has just opened a small bakery. In the kitchen, he has hung a sign for all employees to see that reads, “Our goal is to become the community leader in quality ingredients, exemplary service, and sustainable operations.” This sign is an example of a 
A. mission statement.
B. domain name.
C. touchpoint.
D. vision statement.

21. D
Vision statement. A vision statement is a summary of what a business owner wants a business to become, while a mission statement is a summary of what the owner wants a business to be doing. Because Ahmed’s goals are articulated as future accomplishments (what the company wants to become), the sign is an example of a vision statement. Touchpoints are the many ways a business interacts with customers. The sign is visible to employees, but not necessarily to customers. A domain name is a business’ web address. 
SOURCE: PM:126 Build corporate brands
SOURCE: LAP-PM-126—Build Your Corporate Brand…Before Someone Builds It for You (The How-To’s of
Corporate Branding) 

40. Marketers use unique selling propositions (USPs) as part of their __________ strategies. 
A. trading-up
B. product differentiation
C. bundling
D. relationship marketing

40. B
Product differentiation. A unique selling proposition (USP) is an attribute of your product or brand that separates your business from competitors. Marketers use USPs as part of their overall positioning and product differentiation strategies, which make a product appear different from similar products on the market. For example, Amazon’s two-day shipping promise has set it apart from other e-commerce sites and has made it one of the most successful companies in the world. Bundling is a marketing strategy that involves offering several products for sale as one combined product. Relationship marketing is a strategy in which businesses spend time with current and prospective clients outside the office setting to enhance the partnership. Trading up is a product-mix strategy in which a business adds a higher priced product or product line to its product mix. Relationship marketing, trading up, and bundling are not necessarily related to USPs. 
SOURCE: PM:272 Identify company's unique selling proposition
SOURCE: LAP-PM-272—Stand Out (Unique Selling Proposition)
2024 HS ICDC ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 11 

80. Which of the following is an example of customer service that a business can provide: 
A. Free delivery
B. Limited returns
C. Emergency exits
D. Receipts

80. A
Free delivery. A business can offer free delivery to entice customers and improve their experience. Receipts and emergency exits are all necessary or required for a business to operate safely and legally. A limited return policy would not positively impact customers’ experiences with a business. Customer service is an “extra” a business provides, not a necessity. 
SOURCE: PM:013 Explain the role of customer service in positioning/image
SOURCE: LAP-PM-913—Customer Service Supersized (The Role of Customer Service in Positioning/Image)

30. Before building your company's unique selling proposition (USP), ask yourself if 
A. you already have one without realizing it.
B. you can afford the advertising costs.
C. you really need one to be successful.
D. there are any successful ones you can copy.

30. A
You already have one without realizing it. Before building your company's unique selling proposition (USP), ask yourself if you already have one without realizing it. If so, and it works, there's no reason to change it; actually, changing it could confuse your customers and hurt your business. However, if the USP is not working, it's time to get started on a new one. Every business needs a good USP to be successful, whether or not it spends a lot of money on advertising. A good USP is one of a kind, not copied from another company. 
SOURCE: PM:272 Identify company's unique selling proposition
SOURCE: LAP-PM-272—Stand Out (Unique Selling Proposition)

77. When a manufacturer changes a product's package to give the product a new, more attractive, or updated look, the product-mix strategy being utilized is called 
A. trading-up.
B. alteration.
C. positioning.
D. expansion.

77. B
Alteration. Alteration is a product-mix strategy in which a business makes changes to its products or product lines. New packaging would be an example of alteration. Expansion is a product-mix strategy in which a business expands its product mix by adding product items or product lines. Trading-up is a product-mix strategy in which a business adds a higher priced product or product line to its product mix. Positioning is a product-mix strategy in which a business creates a certain image or impression of a product in the minds of consumers. 
SOURCE: PM:003 Explain the concept of product mix
SOURCE: LAP-PM-003—Mix and Match (The Nature of the Product Mix)

95. When evaluating the customer experience, it is usually more effective for businesses to ask customers 
A. to write reports.
B. about competitors.
C. specific questions.
D. for referrals.

95. C
Specific questions. Businesses evaluate the customer experience to find out if customers are satisfied with the business and if the business is meeting the customers' expectations. To do that, businesses often send questionnaires to customers or meet with customers to obtain feedback. The information they obtain from customers helps businesses evaluate how they are doing as far as satisfying customers. If the feedback indicates problems, businesses can make changes to provide a more satisfactory customer experience. When evaluating the customer experience, businesses do not typically ask customers about competitors, for referrals, or to write reports. 
SOURCE: PM:138 Evaluate customer experience
SOURCE: Vertical Response. (n.d.). 15 steps to create an effective customer survey. Retrieved October 3,
2023, from https://verticalresponse.com/blog/steps-to-create-an-effective-customer-survey/ ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 23 

Hospitality 2024 Exams

11. Aurora is able to save money by buying her internet and cable TV together instead of buying them separately. Aurora benefits from product 
A. bundling.
B. seeding.
C. grouping.
D. applications.

11. A
Bundling. Product bundling is a marketing strategy that involves offering several products for sale as one combined product. This typically involves a discount for the customer. Offering several products as one combined product is not called product grouping, seeding, or applications. 
SOURCE: PM:041 Describe the nature of product bundling
SOURCE: Moore, K. (2023, January 25). What is product bundling? Examples and benefits (2023). Retrieved
August 4, 2023, from https://www.shopify.com/retail/bundling-for-retail 

71. A cafe creates a special entree each day using local produce. It markets the entrees to promote its support of local farmers and growers. What aspect of product/service management does this situation exemplify? 
A. Commercialization
B. Positioning
C. Test marketing
D. Licensing

71. B
Positioning. Positioning is a strategy in which a business creates a certain image or impression of a product in the minds of consumers. By creating and promoting special entrees using local produce, the restaurant is positioning itself as supportive of the local farming community. Test marketing involves introducing the product to a limited market to see how it will be accepted. Licensing means buying permission from another person or company to sell a product. Commercialization is the point at which the product goes into full-scale production, a marketing plan is put in place, service and sales training are conducted, and the product's life cycle begins. 
SOURCE: PM:001 Explain the nature and scope of the product/service management function
SOURCE: LAP-PM-017—Serving Up Products (Nature of Product/Service Management)
HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 17 

74. Launching a brand in other countries requires extensive research into 
A. the history of branding in those countries.
B. brand licensing laws.
C. co-branding practices in those countries.
D. foreign customs, values, and languages.

74. D
Foreign customs, values, and languages. Launching a brand in other countries requires knowledge, understanding, and sensitivity toward foreign cultures and taboos. Frequently, what is acceptable in one culture is not in another. Product names, promotional approaches, and sometimes even product features themselves may have to be adapted to make them acceptable—and saleable—to foreign customers. The history of brands in foreign countries may provide helpful context but is not a central issue in launching a brand internationally. Understanding brand licensing laws and co-branding practices in foreign countries may provide some helpful context, but are not central issues in launching a brand internationally, unless you one day plan to enter into a specific brand licensing or co-branding arrangement. 
SOURCE: PM:021 Explain the nature of product/service branding
SOURCE: LAP-PM-021—It's a Brand, Brand, Brand World! (Nature of Product Branding)

88. Fun-Tastic Entertainment owns several amusement parks throughout the midwestern area of the country. The company is planning to open several water parks within driving distance of its amusement parks. This is an example of 
A. a corporate merger.
B. a joint venture.
C. a product extension.
D. product positioning.

88. C
A product extension. A product extension is an additional product related to, but different than, the main product. In the example, Fun-Tastic's primary product is a form of entertainment—an amusement park with rides and shows. A water park is also a form of entertainment, but differs from an amusement park because it involves water and swimming activities. A merger occurs when two individual businesses combine to form one organization. Product positioning refers to the consumer's image or impression of a product as compared to that of competitive products. A joint venture is an arrangement that involves two or more businesses entering into a relationship by combining complementary resources such as technology, skills, capital, or distribution channels for the benefit of all parties. A joint-venture relationship is usually short-term or for a single project/transaction. 
SOURCE: PM:099 Explain the nature of product extensions in the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: Odjick, D. (2021, June 24). Product line extensions: What they are, examples, and tips for forming
your strategy. Retrieved August 4, 2023, from https://www.shopify.com/blog/product-line-extensions HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 21 

91. Why is it important for a business to communicate the core values of its products? 
A. To appeal to the target market
B. To justify the price
C. To develop appropriate advertising
D. To analyze market research

91. A
To appeal to the target market. Core values represent the underlying worth of products and the image those products project. Products have value beyond price, and these values often are more important to customers than the price. For example, the core values of one product might include quality construction and a respected reputation. These are the values that appeal to the target market and encourage the target market to buy the products. A business does not communicate the core values of its products to justify the price, develop appropriate advertising, or analyze market research. 
SOURCE: PM:214 Communicate core values of product/service
SOURCE: Bourn, J. (2019, October 3). How to identify and define your core brand values. Retrieved August 4,
2023, from https://jenniferbourn.com/brand-core-values/ 

92. Which of the following is an example of corporate branding: 
A. A restaurant prints its company logo on all of its disposable paper products.
B. A cafe develops a logo illustrating its core value of using natural ingredients.
C. A cafe advertises its homemade muffins and pastries.
D. A restaurant sells tickets to special seven-course meals.

92. B
A cafe develops a logo illustrating its core value of using natural ingredients. Branding refers to tactics that establish and promote the identity and unique values of a company and distinguish it from other businesses. Illustrating the use of natural ingredients helps communicate a core business value that distinguishes the cafe from others. Advertising products and selling tickets for special events are examples of a business using promotion. Printing a company logo on disposable paper products helps identify a company, but it does not necessarily help promote its unique values. 
SOURCE: PM:206 Explain the nature of corporate branding
SOURCE: Sisk, A. (2018, June 11). What is the definition of corporate branding? Retrieved August 4, 2023,
from https://bizfluent.com/info-7794760-definition-corporate-branding.html HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 22 

26. A gluten-free bakery needs to communicate product value to customers. Which of the following elements should the business emphasize: 
A. The uniqueness of its gluten-free goods
B. The company’s financial statements
C. Friendly competition with neighboring businesses
D. Testimonials from dairy-free customers

26. A
The uniqueness of its gluten-free goods. Communicating value means sharing the positive benefits a product delivers. Put another way, value is the amount of satisfaction a good or service will provide a customer. When communicating value to customers, businesses can emphasize a product’s uniqueness, or what makes it different from other products. Emphasizing friendly competition with neighboring businesses and highlighting the company’s financial statements would not necessarily communicate product value to customers. 
SOURCE: PM:214 Communicate core values of product/service
SOURCE: Indeed. (2022, December 5). How to communicate value to customers (plus importance). Retrieved
November 21, 2023, from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/how-tocommunicate-value-to-customers 2024 HS ICDC HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 7 

37. When it comes to negotiating with travel suppliers, businesses should 
A. ask their least frequently used hotels for a discount.
B. avoid sharing their travel data with suppliers.
C. communicate regularly with their suppliers.
D. work with rental car agencies but avoid credit card companies.

37. C
Communicate regularly with their suppliers. Travel suppliers, or vendors, can include hotels, airlines, car rental agencies, and credit card companies. When it comes to negotiating with travel suppliers, businesses should communicate regularly with their suppliers. The relationship between a business and its supplier can impact the business's ability to negotiate discounts. Regular communication with a supplier can form a strong business relationship, which will make it easier to negotiate discounts. Businesses should share their travel data with their suppliers, as this will allow the suppliers to provide their best discount options. Businesses should ask their most frequently used hotels for a discount rather than their least frequently used hotels. Businesses that work with travel suppliers do not avoid working with credit card companies. 
SOURCE: PM:319 Negotiate terms with hospitality and tourism suppliers
SOURCE: MacNair, M. (2016, August 18). 5 tips for negotiating with travel suppliers. Retrieved November 29,
2023, from https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/5-tips-negotiating-travel-suppliers-mike-macnair 

40. Which of the following is a stage in a product’s life cycle: 
A. Adolescence
B. Retirement
C. Growth
D. Puffery

40. C
Growth. Products move through the following stages of the product life cycle: introduction, growth, maturity, and decline. These stages are the basis for product/service planning and management. Product/Service managers understand how and why competition changes from one stage of the life cycle to another, and they make decisions based on what will be most effective for a product at its current stage. Puffery is an unsubstantiated exaggeration or overstatement typically used for self-gain. Adolescence and retirement are not product life cycle stages. 
SOURCE: PM:001 Explain the nature and scope of the product/service management function
SOURCE: LAP-PM-017—Serving Up Products (Nature of Product/Service Management)

66. Which of the following statements about customer voice in hospitality and tourism branding is true: 
A. It allows customers to help make business decisions.
B. It does not include customers' needs and wants.
C. Businesses typically don't take customers into account.
D. Businesses tailor their brand to suit their customers.

66. D
Businesses tailor their brand to suit their customers. Customer voice is very important when it comes to hospitality and tourism branding. Customer voice includes customers’ opinions and reactions toward a brand, as well as their interests, needs, and wants. Businesses take customer voice into account, as a product that does not agree with customer interests could hurt a business. As a result, businesses tailor their brand to suit their customers, allowing the business to garner more sales due to meeting their customers' needs and wants. While customers influence business decisions, they do not help companies make those decisions. 
SOURCE: PM:317 Describe the role of customer voice in hospitality and tourism branding
SOURCE: Proven Partners. (2023). The importance of branding in the hotel and hospitality industries.
Retrieved November 29, 2023, from https://www.proven.partners/blog/hotel-hospitality-branding 

67. Huntington Bank offers home loans, checking accounts, and savings accounts. These consumer financial products are an example of a(n) 
A. contraction strategy.
B. alteration strategy.
C. product line.
D. product item.

67. C
Product line. A product line is a group of related product items. The product items in a product line are somewhat like the members of a family in their relationship to each other; they often resemble each other in some way. An example of a product line would be all of a bank’s consumer financial products—home loans, checking accounts, savings accounts, etc. Each individual good, service, or idea that a business offers for sale is a product item. An alteration product-mix strategy involves making changes to the company’s products or lines. Contraction means removing product items or lines from the product mix. 
SOURCE: PM:003 Explain the concept of product mix
SOURCE: LAP-PM-003—Mix and Match (The Nature of the Product Mix)

69. What is the most important factor in fulfilling a satisfaction guarantee in the hotel industry? 
A. Room service
B. Location
C. Customer service
D. Continental breakfast

69. C
Customer service. A satisfaction guarantee promises the customer will be satisfied with their experience at a hotel. Many hotels offer a discount or money-back guarantee if a hotel guest is not entirely satisfied with their experience. While factors like location, continental breakfast, and room service contribute to a hotel guest’s experience, customer service is the primary means for fulfilling a satisfaction guarantee. Providing excellent customer service enables a hotel to gain a competitive advantage in the industry. 
SOURCE: PM:314 Explain guarantees in hospitality and tourism
SOURCE: Holmes, T. (2023, November 2). What is a hotel guarantee? Retrieved November 21, 2023, from
https://www.wisetour.com/what-is-a-hotel-guarantee.htm 2024 HS ICDC HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 17 

77. Which of the following is an example of a business logo: 
A. Starbucks' rotating seasonal menu
B. Apple’s thin and sleek iPhone design
C. Pepsi’s red, white, and blue circle
D. Taco Bell’s commitment to customer service

77. C
Pepsi’s red, white, and blue circle. A logo is a distinctive symbol, design, or group of letters. For example, you probably recognize the panda used as the World Wildlife Fund’s logo or the red, white, and blue circle used as Pepsi’s logo. Commitment to customer service, the design of a single product, and the items listed on a menu are not examples of logos. 
SOURCE: PM:206 Explain the nature of corporate branding
SOURCE: LAP-PM-206—Corporate Identity (Nature of Corporate Branding)

89. A restaurant creates several new flavors for its original cola, including vanilla, cherry, orange, and lime. This is an example of 
A. product placement.
B. product differentiation.
C. a product recall.
D. a product extension.

89. D
A product extension. A product extension is the strategy of placing an established product's brand name on a new product within the same category. A restaurant creating several new flavors for its original cola is an example of a product extension. Product differentiation is a strategy for making a product appear different from similar products on the market. Product placement is a type of “other” media that uses branded products as props in movies, TV shows, online videos, and video games. A product recall is the removal from the marketplace of a product that is defective or hazardous to consumers. 
SOURCE: PM:099 Explain the nature of product extensions in the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: Hirsh, L. (n.d.). What is product extension in marketing? Retrieved November 29, 2023, from
https://smallbusiness.chron.com/product-extension-marketing-65988.html 

96. The consistency of hospitality products differs based on the service provider’s skill. Which of the following characteristics does this most closely align with: 
A. Intangibility
B. Variability
C. Perishability
D. Inseparability

96. B
Variability. Hospitality and tourism products are highly variable or inconsistent. Consistency differs based on the service provider’s skillset. Guests often have different expectations, which contributes to variability in hospitality and tourism. Perishability means hospitality products can’t be stored for later use. Inseparability refers to the fact that both hospitality customers and employees are intertwined and become part of the service. Intangibility means hospitality and tourism products can’t always be felt, seen, heard, or tasted before or after purchase. 
SOURCE: PM:081 Explain the concept of product in the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: Geographic Book. (2023, September 3). Characteristics of tourism product. Retrieved November 21,
2023, from https://geographicbook.com/characteristics-of-tourism-product/ 

4. Quantum Cable customers can get internet, phone, and TV service for a single low price. This is an example of 
A. product separation.
B. consumer demand.
C. combined marketing.
D. product bundling.

4. D
Product bundling. Product bundling occurs when a company sells a group of products for a lower price than if the consumer purchased each product separately. One common “bundle” includes internet, phone, and TV service. Consumer demand, product separation, and combined marketing are not terms used to describe product bundling. 
SOURCE: PM:041 Describe the nature of product bundling
SOURCE: Merritt, C. (2019, March 4). Bundle pricing strategy. Retrieved September 27, 2023, from
https://smallbusiness.chron.com/bundle-pricing-strategy-67049.html 

7. Jeremy's Nutrition Company brands its new J-Bar protein bar with a logo, tagline, and color scheme. What is the final stage of brand loyalty that new products like the J-Bar strive to reach? 
A. Brand awareness
B. Brand preference
C. Brand insistence
D. Brand recognition

7. C
Brand insistence. Brand insistence is the final stage of brand loyalty in which consumers insist upon buying a specific brand. Brand awareness is one of the first stages of branding and is the extent to which customers or potential customers are familiar with a brand. Brand preference comes before insistence and is the stage of brand loyalty in which consumers prefer to purchase a certain brand but will accept substitutes if the brand is not available. Brand recognition is the stage of brand loyalty in which consumers are made aware of a brand's existence. 
SOURCE: PM:021 Explain the nature of product/service branding
SOURCE: The Raymond Aaron Group. (n.d.). Building your brand—Brand insistence. Retrieved September 27,
2023, from http://aaron.com/2012/02/06/building-your-brand-%E2%80%93-number-4-%E2%80%93brand-insistence/ 

9. A company hangs a poster with its brand promise in its customer service department to make sure employees have the brand in mind. This is an example of a 
A. private brand.
B. touchpoint.
C. logo.
D. brand cue.

9. D
Brand cue. Brand cues are simple reminders of the brand's identity and values. Brand cues are a great way to remind employees about the brand values and brand promise. Touchpoints are all the opportunities that businesses have to connect with customers and reinforce their brand. Logos are distinctive symbols, designs, or groups of letters. A private brand is owned by the intermediary (retailer, wholesaler, or other distributor) that sells the brand rather than the manufacturer. 
SOURCE: PM:206 Explain the nature of corporate branding
SOURCE: LAP-PM-206—Corporate Identity (Nature of Corporate Branding)
HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 3 

10. An advertisement for a spa promotes its clean facility, gentle massage therapists, and peaceful atmosphere. The spa is communicating the core customer value of 
A. relaxation.
B. sociability.
C. adventure.
D. knowledge.

10. A
Relaxation. A core customer value is the basic need addressed by a product. For example, spa visitors often seek (or need) relaxation. The spa is responding to this need by promoting its clean facility, gentle staff, and peaceful atmosphere, which are not elements typically needed by those seeking adventure, sociability, or knowledge. 
SOURCE: PM:214 Communicate core values of product/service
SOURCE: Marketing-Insider. (2015, April 27). Three levels of product—Core value, actual product, and
augmented product. Retrieved September 27, 2023, from https://marketing-insider.eu/three-levels-ofproduct/ 

51. Which of the following is an example of a service provided by the hospitality industry: 
A. Restaurant meals
B. Valet parking
C. Airline tickets
D. Electronic room keys

51. B
Valet parking. A service is an intangible product; one that can be felt, seen, heard, or experienced rather than touched. Many hospitality businesses offer valet parking as a service for their guests. Valet parking service occurs when a hotel or restaurant employee parks and retrieves the guests' vehicles upon the guests' arrival or departure from the business (e.g., hotel, restaurant). Meals, airline tickets, and electronic room keys are tangible items. 
SOURCE: PM:095 Describe services offered by the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: CFI. (2023, May 11). Products and services. Retrieved September 27, 2023, from
https://corporatefinanceinstitute.com/resources/management/products-and-services/ 

57. Which of the following statements is true of product/service management: 
A. It is only useful for small businesses.
B. It is only necessary for large businesses.
C. It involves continuing to sell unsuccessful products.
D. It involves discovering new-product opportunities.

57. D
It involves discovering new-product opportunities. Product/Service management involves discovering newproduct opportunities. Product/Service management is important for all businesses, not just small or large ones. Product/Service management involves eliminating unsuccessful products, not continuing to sell them. 
SOURCE: PM:001 Explain the nature and scope of the product/service management function
SOURCE: LAP-PM-017—Serving Up Products (Nature of Product/Service Management)

96. A business's capabilities and resources are most likely to result in a competitive advantage if those capabilities and resources 
A. are environmentally sustainable.
B. have high value in the market.
C. are relatively commonplace.
D. are difficult to maintain.

96. B
Have high value in the market. To identify its competitive advantage, a business must consider what makes its service, product, capability, or other resource superior to all of a customer's other choices—in other words, what gives that service, product, capability, or resource greater value in the market. Commonplace capabilities and resources are not likely to result in a competitive advantage. While a business can benefit from environmentally sustainable capabilities and resources, sustainability is not likely to result in a competitive advantage if those capabilities and resources lack value. When a capability or resource is difficult to maintain, the cost for its upkeep is likely to outweigh any benefit it provides. 
SOURCE: PM:246 Identify product's/service's competitive advantage
SOURCE: Twin, A. (2023, August 3). Competitive advantage definition with types and examples. Retrieved
September 27, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/c/competitive_advantage.asp HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 23 

Marketing 2024 Exams

12. The main tools used in synectics, a creative-thinking technique, are 
A. different colored hats.
B. mind maps.
C. metaphors and analogies.
D. brainstorming groups.

12. C
Metaphors and analogies. Creative thinking involves making connections among things. By using metaphors and analogies in different synectics techniques, people can begin to see relationships among things. Use of different colored hats occurs with the Six Thinking Hats technique. Mind maps involve the use of a big sheet of paper on which you'd write a topic in the middle of the page and draw associations with related words. With brainstorming, people throw out their ideas to the group without evaluating the quality of the ideas. 
SOURCE: PM:127 Identify methods/techniques to generate a product idea
SOURCE: LAP-PM-127—Unleash Your Mind (Techniques for Generating Product Ideas)
MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 4 

14. In relation to product grades and standards, why is international standardization needed? 
A. To protect patents, copyrights, and trademarks
B. To prevent market expansion
C. To protect developing countries from competition
D. To prevent technical barriers to trade

14. D
To prevent technical barriers to trade. By establishing worldwide industry standards, technical barriers to trade are minimized because products meet the same standards. This encourages competition between countries and increases markets. Standards also economically assist developing countries by improving productivity, market competitiveness, and export capability. International standards do not affect patents, copyrights, or trademarks. 
SOURCE: PM:019 Describe the uses of grades and standards in marketing
SOURCE: International Organization for Standardization. (2023, March 13). Benefits of standards. Retrieved
August 3, 2023, from https://www.iso.org/benefits-of-standards.html 

18. A characteristic of the growth stage of a product's life cycle is 
A. beginning obsolescence.
B. rising sales.
C. increasing costs.
D. declining distribution.

18. B
Rising sales. A product in the growth stage of the product life cycle has been accepted by consumers, and sales are increasing. Product production is more efficient at this stage, resulting in lower costs of production. Distribution expands as the market expands. Obsolescence does not begin until the product is in late maturity or decline. 
SOURCE: PM:024 Identify the impact of product life cycles on marketing decisions
SOURCE: Kopp, C.M. (2023, March 16). Product life cycle explained: Stage and examples. Retrieved August 3,
2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/p/product-life-cycle.asp 

46. Which of the following is an example of a business behaving ethically in an effort to protect consumers: 
A. Explaining the new manufacturing process
B. Wrapping products in plain paper
C. Placing informative commercials on TV
D. Using tamper-resistant packaging

46. D
Using tamper-resistant packaging. Many businesses produce products that might be harmful to consumers if the products are tampered with or become contaminated. To protect consumers, businesses often use tamperresistant packaging which makes it extremely difficult for someone to get to the product without damaging the packaging. As a result, customers are able to easily determine if this type of packaging has been tampered with, which warns them not to buy the products. Using tamper-resistant packaging is an ethical procedure that businesses follow in an effort to protect their products and ensure the safety of their customers. Products usually are not wrapped in plain paper. Placing informative commercials on TV and explaining the new manufacturing process are not ways of protecting consumers. 
SOURCE: PM:040 Explain business ethics in product/service management
SOURCE: Container and Packaging. (2021, July 16). What is tamper-resistant packaging? Retrieved August 3,
2023, from https://www.containerandpackaging.com/resources/what-is-tamper-resistant-packaging 

49. Which of the following is an example of product bundling: 
A. Business selling computer, printer, and ink cartridges as a unit
B. Theme park charging admission and selling ride tickets
C. Lumber company selling wood chips as small-animal bedding
D. Garden shop discounting prices of seasonal merchandise

49. A
Business selling computer, printer, and ink cartridges as a unit. Product bundling involves combining several products and offering them to customers as one product. Usually, the bundled products are offered for one, allinclusive price. An example is a business selling a computer, a printer, and ink cartridges as a unit. In many cases, the bundle is less expensive than the cost of each item sold separately. Sometimes, the products can only be purchased as a unit and are not available separately. A lumber company selling wood chips as smallanimal bedding is an example of selling by-products. A theme park charging admission and then selling ride tickets is an example of two-part pricing. A garden shop discounting prices of seasonal merchandise is an example of adjusting prices. 
SOURCE: PM:041 Describe the nature of product bundling
SOURCE: Leonard, K. (2018, October 23). Product bundling strategy. Retrieved August 3, 2023, from
https://smallbusiness.chron.com/product-bundling-strategy-41789.html 

58. Stouffer's developed its product line of entrees called Lean Cuisine to appeal to consumers who want goodtasting meals that are low in calories. This product-mix strategy is an example of 
A. incorporation.
B. alteration.
C. positioning.
D. depth.

58. C
Positioning. Positioning creates a certain image or impression of a product in the minds of consumers. Stouffer's is positioning for the target market. Alteration is a product-mix strategy in which a business makes changes to its existing products or product lines. Incorporation is the process of legally structuring a business as a corporation. Depth of a product mix refers to the number of products and the assortment of sizes, colors, and models offered in a product line. 
SOURCE: PM:042 Describe factors used by marketers to position products/services
SOURCE: Snyder, R. (2023). The power of product positioning and the "7Ps" marketing mix. Retrieved August
2, 2023, from https://280group.com/product-management-blog/the-power-of-product-positioning-andthe-7-ps-marketing-mix/ MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 14 

65. While facilitating a brainstorming session to generate product ideas, Jiang told Isla that her idea would be too expensive to implement. What did Jiang do wrong while facilitating the brainstorming session? 
A. Exceeded the time limit
B. Ignored a group member
C. Asked for opinions
D. Evaluated the idea

65. D
Evaluated the idea. Brainstorming is a creative-thinking activity that businesses often use to generate product ideas. Many businesses find that it is beneficial to have several employees involved in the process because that helps generate a lot of different ideas. The facilitator is a person who guides the brainstorming session. The facilitator helps keep the members of the group brainstorming session on track. This person keeps order, encourages participation, fosters a creative environment, and documents the ideas for further review. The facilitator should not evaluate the ideas or initiate debate during a brainstorming session. These actions may hinder the creative-thinking process and discourage group members from participating. Jiang did not ignore Isla, but provided his opinion of her idea. There is not enough information provided to determine if Jiang exceeded the brainstorming time limit or asked others for their opinions. 
SOURCE: PM:128 Generate product ideas
SOURCE: Mind Tools. (2023). Brainstorming. Retrieved August 3, 2023, from
https://www.mindtools.com/acv0de1/brainstorming 

76. Which of the following is a good reason why a business would remove a product from its product mix and replace it with another: 
A. The product has become a collectible.
B. The product has become a fast seller.
C. The company wants to increase its market share.
D. The company wants to expand its product line.

76. C
The company wants to increase its market share. Most businesses have goals for their firms, and the products they sell should help the firms achieve those objectives. When a product no longer helps a business attain its share of a particular market, the firm may decide to replace it with a product that may do so. The firm in this case is not expanding its product line, since it is simply replacing one product with another. A product that sells well or is a collectible would be a good reason for the company to keep the product in its product mix. 
SOURCE: PM:003 Explain the concept of product mix
SOURCE: LAP-PM-003—Mix and Match (The Nature of the Product Mix)

82. What can businesses do to reduce risks associated with personal injuries and product damage due to improper product use? 
A. Implement a return policy
B. Use recyclable packaging
C. Offer a service guarantee
D. Provide detailed written instructions

82. D
Provide detailed written instructions. To protect customers, businesses must advise customers about how to use their products safely. Complex products that require assembly or that have multiple functions should provide detailed written instructions to help the customer assemble or use the product correctly. When the product is assembled or used correctly, there is less risk of injury to the product user and less risk associated with product damage. Offering a service guarantee, implementing a return policy, and using recyclable packaging are not actions that will help reduce the risk of personal injuries and product damage. 
SOURCE: PM:017 Identify consumer protection provisions of appropriate agencies
SOURCE: LAP-PM-007—Protect and Serve (Consumer Protection)

83. A business associating a common name with its various products and product lines is often referred to as 
A. generic distribution.
B. blended distribution.
C. differentiated branding.
D. monolithic branding.

83. D
Monolithic branding. A brand is the combined images, impressions, and experiences associated with a company, good, or service. Some businesses have a variety of products or product lines. When the company uses the same brand name to market these various products or product lines, it is often referred to as monolithic branding. Differentiated is setting a product or company apart from the competition by emphasizing a specific feature or benefit. Distribution is the marketing function that is responsible for moving, storing, locating, and or transferring the ownership of goods and services. 
SOURCE: PM:206 Explain the nature of corporate branding
SOURCE: Brandality. (2023, June 25). What is brand architecture [And how you can benefit from it]. Retrieved
August 3, 2023, from https://brandality.com/brand-strategy/what-is-brand-architecture/ 

20. Matilda creates a survey with a zero to 10 scale for evaluating how likely customers are to recommend her business to their friends. She’s employing which of the following techniques to gather customer voice data: 
A. Recorded call data
B. Live chat
C. Net promoter score
D. Focus groups

20. C
Net promoter score. Net promoter score is used to measure customer loyalty by asking how likely customers are to recommend a business to their friends or colleagues based on a zero to 10 scale. Customer voice is an effective branding tool and companies use various methods to collect customer voice data. Matilda is not utilizing focus groups, recorded call data, or live chat in this example. 
SOURCE: PM:276 Describe the role of customer voice in branding
SOURCE: Sharma, R. (2022, March 8). 12 voice of the customer methodologies to generate a gold mine of
customer feedback. Retrieved September 15, 2023, from https://blog.hubspot.com/service/voice-ofthe-customer-methodologies 

21. Which of the following is an example of a business developing products or services in response to trends: 
A. A restaurant offering gluten-free, low-carb, and vegetarian options
B. A toy agency tweaking its products based on its competitor's limitations
C. A cell phone company changing its product based on an online survey
D. A cleaning company altering its services due to customer complaints

21. A
A restaurant offering gluten-free, low-carb, and vegetarian options. Most new product ideas typically come from trends, customers, or existing products. A trend is the general direction in which people or events are moving. A restaurant offering gluten-free, low-carb, and vegetarian options is a response to various health food trends. A cell phone company changing its product based on an online survey is an example of a business developing products or services in response to customers. A cleaning company altering its services due to customer complaints is an example of a business developing products or services in response to customers and/or existing products. A toy agency tweaking its products based on its competitor's limitations is an example of a business developing products or services in response to existing products. 
SOURCE: PM:127 Identify methods/techniques to generate a product idea
SOURCE: LAP-PM-127—Unleash Your Mind (Techniques for Generating Product Ideas)

26. Questions like “What makes this brand special?” and “What are its benefits?” are often asked by marketers during 
A. co-branding.
B. brand licensing.
C. brand extension.
D. brand positioning.

26. D
Brand positioning. The marketer’s goal in positioning a brand is to try to establish the “point of difference”—the factor that separates the brand from its competitors. What makes this brand special? What are its benefits? Marketers must ask these questions to create the right image for their brand—the image that will make their brand successful. Brand extension is the brand strategy of using successful brands to introduce new products. Brand licensing is the legal authorization by a brand owner to allow another company to use the brand in exchange for a fee. Co-branding is a brand strategy that involves businesses joining forces for mutual benefit and to increase brand recognition, customer loyalty, and sales for both brands. 
SOURCE: PM:021 Explain the nature of product/service branding
SOURCE: LAP-PM-021—It’s a Brand, Brand, Brand World! (Nature of Product Branding)

34. A brand uses Serena Williams to advertise its tennis rackets. This is an example of 
A. repositioning.
B. benefits.
C. endorsement.
D. competitive advantage.

34. C
Endorsement. Showing a famous athlete using a certain product is an example of positioning by celebrity endorsement. Repositioning means giving a product or brand a new position. Benefits are the advantages customers receive from a product. Competitive advantage refers to any edge a business has over its competitors. 
SOURCE: PM:042 Describe factors used by marketers to position products/services
SOURCE: LAP-PM-042—Getting Piece of Mind (Factors Used to Position Products/Services)

36. Green Apron, a meal delivery service, only sells its preportioned recipe ingredients as a kit. This is an example of what product bundling strategy? 
A. Pure bundling
B. Cross-sell bundling
C. New product bundling
D. Gift bundling

36. A
Pure bundling. When businesses use the pure bundling strategy, products are sold as a set—items cannot be purchased individually. Green Apron customers are unable to purchase the individual ingredients outside of the meal kits. Cross-sell bundling involves combining products from different categories. New product bundling involves limited-time or special launch products. Gift bundling is typically used around the holidays and often includes wrapping services. This example does not illustrate cross-sell, new product, or gift bundling. 
SOURCE: PM:041 Describe the nature of product bundling
SOURCE: Qualtrics. (2022, December 9). Product bundling 101: Guide, strategies, and examples. Retrieved
September 14, 2023, at https://www.qualtrics.com/experience-management/product/productbundling/ 

49. Cherry Blossom Electronics designs its products to become unusable before they should reasonably need replacement. This is an example of which of the following: 
A. Planned obsolescence
B. Product life cycle
C. Dishonest marketing
D. Voluntary recall

49. A
Planned obsolescence. Planned obsolescence is the practice of designing a product to become unusable before it should reasonably need replacement. Products often need to be altered, adjusted, or repositioned throughout their life cycles, but this is not planned obsolescence. Dishonest marketing involves misleading information about products. A voluntary recall occurs when companies remove products from the market and request that customers return, destroy, or stop using the product. 
SOURCE: PM:040 Explain business ethics in product/service management
SOURCE: LAP-PM-040—Safe and Sound (Ethics in Product/Service Management)

64. Which of the following questions would be most useful for generating product/business ideas: 
A. Do you like this project?
B. Where can we cut corners?
C. What problem are we solving?
D. Who is responsible for this project?

64. C
What problem are we solving? Brainstorming is one technique for generating product/business ideas. Brainstorming questions are often open-ended or exploratory, and they encourage imaginative thinking. ‘What problem are we solving?’ is a creative, focused, exploratory question. ‘Do you like this project?’ is a close-ended (yes or no) question that isn’t relevant to generating product/business ideas. ‘Where can we cut corners?’ is not a particularly useful, or ethical, question. ‘Who is responsible for this project?’ is closed-ended and should have already been discussed prior to the project 
SOURCE: PM:128 Generate product ideas
SOURCE: Creately. (September 12, 2023). 70 brainstorming questions to get your best ideas out. Retrieved
October 3, 2023, from https://creately.com/guides/brainstorming-questions/ 2024 HS ICDC MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 15 

65. Which of the following accurately describes customer touchpoints: 
A. They occur at any stage in the customer journey.
B. They lower a company’s just-in-time inventory.
C. They increase a company’s turnover rate.
D. They occur after a customer’s purchase.

65. A
They occur at any stage in the customer journey. Customer touchpoints are all the opportunities businesses have to connect with customers and reinforce their brand. Touchpoints can occur before, during, and after purchases. Just-in-time inventory is a method where goods are ordered so they arrive when they are needed rather than being stockpiled. Turnover is the rate at which an organization needs to replace employees. Neither of these are related to customer touchpoints. 
SOURCE: PM:277 Identify customer touch points
SOURCE: Indeed. (2023, February 3). 30 customer touch point examples (plus how to identify them). Retrieved
September 15, 2023, from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/customertouchpoint 

71. Which of the following types of innovation is least likely to be noticed by customers: 
A. Periodic
B. Purchase
C. Product
D. Process

71. D
Process. Process innovation occurs when a business changes how something is done or made. This often includes changes in manufacturing equipment, technology, or tools. Process innovation is more internal facing. Product innovation occurs when a business creates, improves, or adds a new feature to a product. Customers are very likely to notice product innovation. Purchase innovation and periodic innovation are fictitious terms. 
SOURCE: PM:134 Identify product opportunities
SOURCE: Differential. (2020, March 19). The 3 types of innovation: Product, process, & business model.
Retrieved October 3, 2023, from https://www.differential.com/posts/the-3-types-of-innovationproduct-process-business-model 

74. Walmart stocks products not only from well-known corporate brands but also from its own brands. These brands are owned and sold exclusively by Walmart, which makes them 
A. brand extensions.
B. brand cues.
C. distributor brands.
D. co-brands.

74. C
Distributor brands. Distributor brands are owned by the retailer or wholesaler that sells the brands, rather than the manufacturer. You can see distributor brands at large grocery stores, which often produce their own lines. One example is Walmart, whose Great Value brand is the largest food brand in the U.S. A brand extension is the brand strategy of using successful brands to introduce new products. Co-branding is a brand strategy that involves businesses joining forces for mutual benefit. Brand cues are simple reminders of the brand’s identity and values. 
SOURCE: PM:206 Explain the nature of corporate branding
SOURCE: LAP-PM-206—Corporate Identity (Nature of Corporate Branding)

75. Express Scripts emphasizes the simplicity of its automatic refill program in its marketing efforts. Express Scripts is utilizing which of the following brand positioning strategies: 
A. Price-based
B. Customer service
C. Differentiation
D. Convenience-based

75. D
Convenience-based. Brand positioning is a strategy in which marketers create a certain image or impression of a brand as compared to those of competitors’ brands. A convenience-based positioning strategy highlights how a company’s products or services are easier to use, more widely accessible, or more convenient than its competitors. A price-based strategy emphasizes affordability. A customer service strategy emphasizes customer satisfaction. A differentiation strategy emphasizes the uniqueness of a product or service. Express Scripts is not using price-based, customer service, or differentiation brand positioning strategies. 
SOURCE: PM:207 Describe factors used by businesses to position corporate brands
SOURCE: Patel, S. (2022, September 28). A complete guide to successful brand positioning. Retrieved
September 14, 2023, from https://blog.hubspot.com/sales/brand-positioning-strategy 

76. Which of the following is typically responsible for determining product grades: 
A. Individual businesses
B. Government agencies
C. Consumer groups
D. Research companies

76. B
Government agencies. Product grading is typically conducted by government agencies using agreed-upon letters or numbers to describe quality. Government inspectors are often the ones who do the actual scoring of goods based on a point system. Research companies, individual businesses, and consumer groups are not usually involved in determining product grades. 
SOURCE: PM:019 Describe the uses of grades and standards in marketing
SOURCE: LAP-PM-019—Raise the Bar (Grades and Standards)

88. RJ’s Snack Emporium uses high-speed digital printing to optimize its production processes. This example illustrates the benefits of technology in 
A. lifecycle management.
B. market testing.
C. accounts receivable.
D. product labeling.

88. D
Product labeling. Technology impacts the product/service management function in various ways. In product labeling and packaging, technology like high-speed digital printing allows companies to optimize their production processes with increased accuracy and speed. This example does not illustrate the benefits of technology in accounts receivable, market testing, or lifecycle management. 
SOURCE: PM:039 Describe the use of technology in the product/service management function
SOURCE: Lorenzi, N. (2020, March 12). Advances in labeling technology provide packaging flexibility.
Retrieved October 3, 2023, from https://www.snackandbakery.com/articles/94344-advances-inlabeling-technology-provide-packaging-flexibility 

93. Traditional film cameras are now in the __________ stage of the product life cycle. 
A. maturation
B. decline
C. introduction
D. growth

93. B
Decline. A product’s decline stage occurs once it starts decreasing in popularity, after the product has reached maturity. Sometimes, products just become outdated. Better products come along that meet the same customer needs and wants. This is why the decline stage of a certain product often coincides with the growth stage of a new product in the same category. A classic example of this involves traditional film cameras. After digital cameras were introduced to the market, their popularity exploded. Traditional film cameras were sent into a quick decline. Film cameras are not in the growth stage, maturation stage, or introduction stage of the product life cycle. 
SOURCE: PM:024 Identify the impact of product life cycles on marketing decisions
SOURCE: LAP-PM-024—Get a Life (Cycle) (Product Life Cycles)

99. When a business successfully manages its products and services, it often reduces its exposure to 
A. market share.
B. financial risk.
C. new customers.
D. sales and profits.

99. B
Financial risk. The better managed a business’s products and services are, the less exposure the business has to financial risk from failed products, lost sales, and inability to meet the competition. A business’s sales and profits will improve if it is offering the products and services its target market wants and needs. When a business’s sales and profits improve, its market share and ability to beat the competition may also improve. When a business takes the time to develop and market appropriate products, it can develop many new customers (which can also translate into greater sales, profits, and market share). 
SOURCE: PM:001 Explain the nature and scope of the product/service management function
SOURCE: LAP-PM-017—Serving Up Products (Nature of Product/Service Management)

1. When a business presents an item to the marketplace by emphasizing its economic value, the business is positioning the product on the basis of its 
A. features.
B. price.
C. competitors.
D. benefits.

1. B
Price. Product positioning is the customer's image or impression of a product as compared to that of competitive products. For example, the Ford Focus (automobile) is positioned to emphasize the car's ability to provide customers with a mode of transportation at a relatively low price. Benefits are the advantages that the customer receives from using the product. Features are the product's attributes or characteristics. A business competitor is a rival business that seeks to attract the same scarce customer dollars. Some businesses position their products to compete with similar products offered by other (rival) businesses. 
SOURCE: PM:042 Describe factors used by marketers to position products/services
SOURCE: Landman, P. (2022). Price positioning. Retrieved September 18, 2023, from
https://www.xotels.com/en/glossary/price-positioning 

3. The most common grades of eggs found in supermarkets are grades 
A. AAA, AA, and A.
B. AA and B.
C. A, B, and C.
D. AA and A.

3. D
AA and A. Eggs are graded according to their quality. The top grades are AA and A, which are suitable for cooking in several different ways. Grade B is the next level of quality, and B-grade eggs would be suitable for baking or general cooking. There is no AAA grade, and grade C is not usually sold by retailers. 
SOURCE: PM:019 Describe the uses of grades and standards in marketing
SOURCE: LAP-PM-019--Raise the Bar (Grades and Standards)

13. Which of the following are primary ethical factors that a business considers when changing its products' packaging: 
A. Environmental issues
B. Market dominance
C. Color and quality
D. Pricing objectives

13. A
Environmental issues. Discarded product packaging--boxes, cans, bottles, and wrapping--eventually go to landfills and dumping grounds, which negatively affect the natural environment. An ethical business will try to develop recyclable and/or biodegradable packaging to reduce damage to the environment. Market dominance, color, quality, and pricing objectives are not primary ethical factors that a business considers when changing its products' packaging. 
SOURCE: PM:040 Explain business ethics in product/service management
SOURCE: LAP-PM-040--Safe and Sound (Ethics in Product/Service Management)
MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 4 

17. Why should a brand name be distinctive? 
A. So that it can be used in multinational marketing
B. So that it can easily be changed over time
C. So that it gives the product a generic image
D. So that it sets the product apart from other products

17. D
So that it sets the product apart from other products. The brand name should not be too common or too similar to those used by competitors. It should be appropriate and even clever, if possible. A brand name's adaptability makes it useable in multinational marketing and prevents it from needing to be changed over time. A distinctive brand name gives the product a specific image, not a generic image. 
SOURCE: PM:021 Explain the nature of product/service branding
SOURCE: LAP-PM-021--It's a Brand, Brand, Brand World! (Nature of Product Branding)

25. After a Korean auto manufacturer built a plant in Ames, Iowa, Kwan noticed a substantial growth of Korean residents in the area, many of whom were relocated to Ames to work for the plant. Kwan decided to import Korean goods and sell them in a small Korean specialty store near town. This is an example of a product opportunity resulting from 
A. shifts in population ethnicity.
B. advancements in technology.
C. differences in priorities.
D. changes in travel habits.

25. A
Shifts in population ethnicity. A product opportunity is a favorable circumstance that presents itself to provide a good or service that customers are willing to buy. Kwan discovered a product opportunity to sell Korean goods when a Korean plant built and relocated Korean workers in his community. Because the number of Korean residents increased, the community experienced changes or shifts in population ethnicity. Kwan's store is a way to meet the unfulfilled needs of a very specific market. The example is not a product opportunity resulting from changes in travel habits, differences in priorities, or advancements in technology. 
SOURCE: PM:134 Identify product opportunities
SOURCE: Kelley, K. (2023, March 14). Understanding your customers: How demographics and psychographics
can help. Retrieved September 18, 2023, from https://extension.psu.edu/understanding-yourcustomers-how-demographics-and-psychographics-can-help 

30. The Federal Trade Commission protects consumers from high-pressure selling tactics by enforcing a regulation that gives consumers a(n) 
A. update on motor vehicle safety.
B. three-day cooling-off period.
C. list of harmful ingredients.
D. standard for prescription drug use.

30. B
Three-day cooling-off period. The Federal Trade Commission enforces a regulation that gives consumers a three-day cooling-off period after signing a purchase contract for consumer goods or services. Consumers cannot be penalized by the seller for canceling a contract within the three-day period. This protects consumers from their own hasty decisions or from high-pressure selling tactics that have influenced them. The Consumer Product Safety Commission requires businesses to list harmful ingredients. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration provides updates on motor vehicle safety. The Food and Drug Administration issues standards for prescription drug use. 
SOURCE: PM:017 Identify consumer protection provisions of appropriate agencies
SOURCE: LAP-PM-007--Protect and Serve (Consumer Protection)

59. Which of the following is a stage of a product's life cycle: 
A. Adolescence
B. Death
C. Birth
D. Maturity

59. D
Maturity. A product life cycle is the course that a product follows in the market. It includes the stages of introduction, growth, maturity, and decline. Introduction is the stage of the product life cycle when the product first appears in the marketplace. Growth is the stage in the product life cycle in which sales rise rapidly. Maturity is the stage in the product life cycle in which sales peak and then increase at a slower rate or start to decline. Decline is the final stage of the product life cycle. During this stage, sales and profits fall rapidly. Birth, adolescence, and death are stages of the human life cycle. 
SOURCE: PM:001 Explain the nature and scope of the product/service management function
SOURCE: LAP-PM-017--Serving Up Products (Nature of Product/Service Management)

63. Oreo's, Chips Ahoy, and Teddy Grahams are all cookies produced by Nabisco. The cookies are an example of a product 
A. mix.
B. assortment.
C. item.
D. line.

63. D
Line. These items are part of a product line, which is a group of related product items. Product items are individual goods or services that a business offers for sale. Product mix is the particular assortment, or variety, of products that a business offers in order to meet its market's needs and its company's goals. 
SOURCE: PM:003 Explain the concept of product mix
SOURCE: LAP-PM-003--Mix & Match (The Nature of Product Mix)
MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 15 

70. Abdul is in the market for an engagement ring. When he decides on the ring he would like to purchase, the salesperson informs him of the company's lifetime warranty on engagement rings. Abdul decides to opt in for the warranty and signs a written contract. This is an example of a(n) 
A. implied warranty.
B. express warranty.
C. strategy.
D. guarantee.

70. B
Express warranty. An express warranty is a warranty that is written or expressed verbally. Because the salesperson verbally informed Abdul of the lifetime warranty and he signed a written contract, this is an example of an express warranty. An implied warranty is an unwritten, unspoken warranty understood by the customer and the seller that the product will perform as expected. A guarantee (often called a money-back guarantee) is a promise made to the consumer that a product's purchase price will be refunded if that product is not satisfactory. A strategy is a plan of action for achieving goals and objectives. 
SOURCE: PM:020 Explain warranties and guarantees
SOURCE: LAP-PM-920--Promises, Promises (Warranties and Guarantees)

78. Which of the following statements regarding corporate branding is true: 
A. A business's core values identify the beliefs that the business stands for.
B. Brand cues are used primarily to identify the company in its advertising.
C. Customer service representatives are responsible for corporate branding.
D. Customer touch points typically occur before sales transactions.

78. A
A business's core values identify the beliefs that the business stands for. A corporate brand consists of all of the combined customer impressions and experiences associated with a particular company. Many different elements, including the company's core values, brand cues, brand personality, brand promise, and touch points, make up a corporate brand's identity. A business's core values, also known as its brand values, are the beliefs or qualities that a brand stands for and is built around. The first step of building a corporate brand involves defining the company's core values. Customer touch points, which are all the opportunities that businesses have to connect with customers and reinforce their brand values, occur before, during, and after sales transactions. Everyone in the company is responsible for corporate branding--not just the customer service representatives. Employees must understand and embrace the brand's values, personality, and promise for the corporate brand to take hold and be a success. Brand cues are elements that remind customers and employees of brands and their values. They appear throughout the workplace and community as well as in advertising. 
SOURCE: PM:207 Describe factors used by businesses to position corporate brands
SOURCE: Couchman, H. (2023). The search for value: How to define clear brand values for your company.
Retrieved September 18, 2023, from https://fabrikbrands.com/how-to-define-brand-values 

84. Telling a brand story is important because it 
A. is a fun activity for the company.
B. is entertaining for customers.
C. connects the brand with customers.
D. eliminates the need for a corporate brand.

84. C
Connects the brand with customers. A corporate brand's story is all about communicating the company's image and connecting with customers. Entertaining customers and having fun as a company are not the main reasons for telling a brand story. Telling the brand's story is a way to communicate the corporate brand; it does not eliminate the need for a corporate brand. 
SOURCE: PM:206 Explain the nature of corporate branding
SOURCE: LAP-PM-206--Corporate Identity (Nature of Corporate Branding)

92. During what phase of a product's life cycle is a business most likely to develop advertising campaigns to remind customers about the product or promote features added to the product? 
A. Obsolescence
B. Introduction
C. Maturity
D. Decline

92. C
Maturity. During the maturity phase, sales peak and then slowly start to decline. Because there are more competitors that market similar products, a business uses advertising to remind customers about its goods and services. Businesses often make small changes to their products to make them appealing to the market's evolving needs and wants. This might involve adding new sizes or colors to the existing product line. During the decline phase, sales drop sharply, and businesses tend to reduce advertising. Obsolescence, which is the state of being outdated or unfashionable, occurs during the decline phase of the product's life cycle. At this point, businesses determine whether to continue to offer the product. Businesses communicate that their products are available during the introduction phase. 
SOURCE: PM:024 Identify the impact of product life cycles on marketing decisions
SOURCE: LAP-PM-024--Get a Life (Cycle) (Product Life Cycles)

99. Why are some business professionals reluctant to generate new product ideas? 
A. They are afraid of risk.
B. They like to explore.
C. They are lateral thinkers.
D. They think "outside the box."

99. A
They are afraid of risk. Many business professionals are reluctant to generate new product ideas. Some are worried about the unknowns and risks that come with new products. Some are not good at thinking "outside the box." Others are afraid to voice new product ideas due to criticism and ridicule that their ideas may attract from close-minded coworkers and supervisors. Lateral thinkers, who typically are good at thinking outside the box and like to explore, are likely to generate and share their ideas. 
SOURCE: PM:127 Identify methods/techniques to generate a product idea
SOURCE: LAP-PM-127--Unleash Your Mind (Techniques for Generating Product Ideas)

