Business Admin Core 2024 Exams

4. Why is it often necessary for employees to continue their education after working for several years? 
A. To serve an apprenticeship
B. To attend college
C. To change careers
D. To take online classes

4. C
To change careers. On occasion, it is necessary for employees to change careers after they have been working for several years because their current jobs will be eliminated. For example, advances in technology have eliminated the need for some jobs while creating a need for new jobs. Therefore, some employees need additional education and training to change careers. Part of continuing their education might include serving an apprenticeship, attending college, or taking online classes. 
SOURCE: PD:033 Explain the need for ongoing education as a worker
SOURCE: University of Cincinnati Online. (2023). 5 benefits of continuing education for career
advancement. Retrieved August 10, 2023, from https://online.uc.edu/blog/5-benefits-of-continuingeducation-for-career-advancement/ BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 2 

9. Kara has natural artistic talent and thinks that she might want to work as an interior designer. Kara's artistic ability is an example of a(n) 
A. hobby.
B. mindset.
C. aptitude.
D. vision.

9. C
Aptitude. When exploring career options, individuals should consider their aptitudes. An aptitude is a natural talent or a skill that a person masters quickly or easily such as drawing, painting, science, math, etc. A hobby is an enjoyable activity that a person does in their leisure time. The attitudes and ways in which a person approaches a situation are their mindset. A vision is the future you desire to create. People apply their aptitudes to work toward their visions. 
SOURCE: PD:023 Identify tentative occupational interest
SOURCE: McKay, D.R. (2019, August 21). Knowing your aptitude can help you choose a career. Retrieved
August 10, 2023, from https://www.liveabout.com/what-is-aptitude-526175 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 3 

15. The major reason people fail to reach their goals is that they 
A. have a positive attitude.
B. want the goal sincerely.
C. are too enthusiastic.
D. give up too soon.

15. D
Give up too soon. Success is often just around the corner, but many people become discouraged and give up without reaching their goals. Enthusiasm, a positive attitude, and a sincere desire to reach a goal are all helpful in attaining goals. 
SOURCE: PD:018 Set personal goals
SOURCE: LAP-PD-918—Go for the Goal (Goal Setting)

20. An effective way to close a job interview follow-up message is to 
A. communicate your minimum salary requirements.
B. reinforce your interest in the position.
C. ask the interviewer to read your resume.
D. acknowledge your desire to be promoted.

20. B
Reinforce your interest in the position. It is a courteous gesture to write a follow-up message (e.g., email) to thank the interviewer for the opportunity to discuss the job. The message may include information that you may have forgotten to share with the interviewer. Letting the interviewer know that you are interested in the position when closing the message can help reinforce a positive image and help the interviewer remember you. Communicating your minimum salary requirements and your desire for promotion are not appropriate topics for a follow-up message and may hinder job offers. Interviewers read resumes before setting up interviews with job applicants. 
SOURCE: PD:029 Write a follow-up letter after job interviews
SOURCE: Live Agent. (2023, July 19). How to write a follow-up email after an interview. Retrieved August 10,
2023, from https://www.liveagent.com/templates/follow-up-email-after-interview-templates/ 

22. What should applicants do before interviewing for a job? 
A. Decide on an appropriate salary
B. Prepare a follow-up message
C. Find out about the business
D. Call the business for directions

22. C
Find out about the business. It is important to be prepared before interviewing for a job. Part of being prepared involves finding out about the business. A lot of information is easy to obtain because many businesses have websites that provide an overview of the business and its operation. Also, it may be possible to visit the business or ask friends and family members about it. Knowing what the business does will make it easier to ask and answer specific questions related to the job. It is not always necessary to call for directions before an interview. Applicants prepare a follow-up message after the interview. It may not be possible to decide on an appropriate salary until the applicant learns more about the job during the interview. 
SOURCE: PD:028 Interview for a job
SOURCE: Indeed. (2023, June 9). 10 things you should know about a company before your
interview. Retrieved August 10, 2023, from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/finding-a-job/whatto-know-about-a-company-before-an-interview 

41. Is it acceptable business practice to prepare a resume without listing any references? 
A. Yes, it is assumed that references can be provided upon request.
B. No, a list of references should be at the beginning of the resume.
C. No, a job resume is incomplete unless it contains a list of references.
D. Yes, providing references is a courtesy that is not really necessary.

41. A
Yes, it is assumed that references can be provided upon request. While it was customary for job applicants to include a sentence on their resume stating "References available upon request," this is no longer considered to be necessary, especially because it takes up valuable space on the resume. It is considered acceptable business practice to prepare a resume without listing any references because it is assumed that references will be provided to potential employers upon request (and therefore does not need stated). Providing references at some point in the application process is more than a courtesy—many companies require it for hiring. A resume is complete if it contains all other necessary information. 
SOURCE: PD:031 Prepare a resume
SOURCE: Palmquist, K. (2023, August 3). References available upon request: Is it needed on a
resume? Retrieved August 10, 2023, from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/resumes-coverletters/references-available-upon-request 

58. After Courtney finds a man's missing order that he was inquiring about, she lets him know it will arrive later that afternoon. He seems to be pleased, so Courtney knows she did the right thing. Which step of problem-solving does this situation illustrate? 
A. Define the problem
B. Determine possible solutions
C. State and check your assumptions
D. Evaluate the solution

58. D
Evaluate the solution. Courtney knows that her solution to the problem was the right one because the customer is satisfied with what she did, and the missing order has been tracked down. This is the last step of problemsolving. She has already defined the problem, and for her to be at the end of the process, she must have already stated her assumptions and determined possible solutions. 
SOURCE: PD:077 Demonstrate problem-solving skills
SOURCE: LAP-PD-077—No Problem (Demonstrating Problem-Solving Skills)

62. Which of the following is a reason why innovation is important: 
A. Innovation helps the economy.
B. Innovation ensures a business will succeed.
C. Innovation eliminates competition.
D. Innovation leads to creativity.

62. A
Innovation helps the economy. Innovation is important because it helps the economy. Innovation creates new products and services that, in turn, create new jobs. Innovation can help a business succeed, but it does not guarantee success. In fact, innovation carries a risk of failure. Innovation does not eliminate competition, but it does give an innovative company a competitive advantage. Innovation doesn't necessarily lead to creativity; instead, creativity is more likely to lead to innovation. Innovation involves the process of putting creative ideas into action. 
SOURCE: PD:126 Explain the need for innovation skills
SOURCE: LAP-PD-126—Ideas in Action (Innovation Skills)

69. To gather information about a career in finance, which of the following would be considered a primary source of career information: 
A. Watching a documentary film about finance outsourcing
B. Reading a magazine article about finance job growth
C. Examining online reviews of several finance companies
D. Interviewing a finance director about their work experiences

69. D
Interviewing a finance director about their work experiences. A primary source is original. It is a person, event, or document that provides first-hand information about something. Magazine articles, online reviews, and documentaries are all examples of secondary sources that explain or summarize information obtained from primary sources. 
SOURCE: PD:022 Identify sources of career information
SOURCE: Georgetown University Library. (2023, July 24). Primary sources. Retrieved August 10, 2023, from
https://guides.library.georgetown.edu/primary_sources 

80. What type of procedure is designed to help companies serve patrons quickly and effectively? 
A. Human resources-related procedures
B. Customer inquiry procedures
C. Emergency procedures
D. Disciplinary/Termination procedures

80. B
Customer inquiry procedures. Customer service is important to practically every company, whether it is a large manufacturing firm or a small “mom and pop” store. Companies implement procedures for handling customer inquiries so they can serve their patrons quickly and effectively. Disciplinary/Termination procedures outline a company's processes for punishing employees that break the code of conduct. Human resources-related procedures describe processes for employee disputes and other human resources issues. Emergency procedures are designed to help keep customers, employees, and resources safe during crisis situations such as mass shootings, natural disasters, and health emergencies. 
SOURCE: PD:250 Adhere to company protocols and policies
SOURCE: LAP-PD-250—Do You Follow? (Adhering to Company Protocols and Policies)

85. Identify the weakness of the following opening paragraph used in a letter of application: "Your recent job post on Indeed for a customer service representetive is of interest to me. I would like to aply for the position." 
A. Spelling
B. Grammar
C. Format
D. Punctuation

85. A
Spelling. The words "representative" and "apply" were misspelled in the opening paragraph. These errors will create a negative impression on the employer. Before submitting a letter of application, you should check for correct spelling, grammar, and punctuation. The opening paragraph does explain the reason that you are writing the letter—the purpose of the opening paragraph. 
SOURCE: PD:030 Write a letter of application
SOURCE: Professional Resume Services. (n.d.). The importance of correct grammar and spelling during an
executive job search. Retrieved August 10, 2023, from https://exclusive-executive-resumes.com/theimportance-of-correct-grammar-and-spelling-during-an-executive-job-search/ 

4. Support staff positions typically fall within the __________ area of business management careers. 
A. business information management
B. administrative services
C. accounting
D. human resources management

4. B
Administrative services. Business management careers include positions in the areas of administrative services, business information management, general management, human resource management, and operations management. Employees working in administrative services facilitate business operations through a variety of administrative and clerical duties, including information and communication management, data processing and collection, and project tracking. These positions are often referred to as support staff positions. For example, an executive or administrative assistant may support the company president by managing their schedule and answering their phone calls, or a customer service representative may support the company by processing incoming orders and handling customer requests and complaints. 
SOURCE: PD:025 Explain employment opportunities in business
SOURCE: LAP-PD-025—Go for It! (Careers in Business)

27. When practicing time management, you should focus on tasks that are 
A. collaborative and straightforward.
B. straightforward and important.
C. urgent and collaborative.
D. important and urgent.

27. D
Important and urgent. A key principle of time management is to determine which tasks are important and urgent. Not all tasks are the same. Some can be categorized as important, which means they are essential for achieving your goals. Urgent tasks are those that demand immediate attention. An urgent task isn’t necessarily important, and important tasks are not necessarily urgent. For example, answering a phone call is urgent because if you don’t pick up right away, you’ll miss the call. However, that phone call might be from a telemarketer who is selling a product that you have no interest in. Also, some tasks are neither important nor urgent, such as redesigning your email signature or reading a funny article that a friend posted online. These types of tasks should be limited or avoided if possible because they won’t lead to any results. Collaborative and straightforward tasks may or may not be important or urgent. 
SOURCE: PD:019 Use time-management skills
SOURCE: LAP-PD-019—About Time (Time Management)

53. Which of the following characteristics is a creative person most likely to display: 
A. Apathy
B. Flexibility
C. Codependence
D. Logic

53. B
Flexibility. There are several personality traits that are generally associated with creativity, including flexibility, independence, passion, sensitivity/intuition, and a willingness to take risks. A person with flexibility is able to adapt to changing conditions with relative ease. Creative people are less likely to be codependent, logical, and apathetic, because these traits can limit creativity (the ability to generate unique ideas, approaches, and solutions). 
SOURCE: PD:012 Demonstrate appropriate creativity
SOURCE: LAP-PD-012—Imagine That (Demonstrating Creativity)

63. Shemar has decided not to hire Garrett’s Tree Removal Service. In the past, the company has worked slower than promised and their quality of service was not to Shemar’s liking. Shemar’s decision is influenced by which of the following: 
A. Risk
B. Experience
C. Emotion
D. Insight

63. B
Experience. Shemar’s decision is influenced by experience because he is choosing to not hire the company based on previous interactions with its employees. Shemar may have strong feelings (emotions) or even a gut feeling (insight), but those are not influencing his decision. Hiring the company could be considered a risk, but experience is what is influencing Shemar’s decision. 
SOURCE: PD:017 Make decisions
SOURCE: LAP-PD-017— Weigh Your Options (Decision-Making)

66. A company restricting employee access to only websites that are required for work is an example of a(n) __________ policy. 
A. discrimination
B. disciplinary
C. health and safety
D. internet

66. D
Internet. The guidelines that companies set for their employees are as diverse as the business world itself—but there are several types of policies and procedures that nearly every company implements. Many companies have policies regarding the use of the internet during work hours. Most internet policies explain that employees should use the internet appropriately and responsibly. For example, a company may restrict employee access to only websites that are required for work. Or, a company may simply say that employees cannot use personal social media websites during work hours. Companies typically have health and safety, disciplinary, and discrimination policies, but they are unrelated to employee website access. 
SOURCE: PD:250 Adhere to company protocols and policies
SOURCE: LAP-PD-250—Do You Follow? (Adhering to Company Protocols and Policies)
2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 15 

67. Toward the end of the workday, Anita sees her manager, Peyton, take money out of the cash register and put it in their pocket. When Anita asks Peyton about it, Peyton sidesteps the question and tells Anita to forget what happened. In this instance, would it be okay for Anita to bypass Peyton and inform the human resources manager of Peyton's actions? 
A. No, because Anita should listen to Peyton and forget what happened.
B. Yes, because Peyton engaged in an illegal activity.
C. Yes, because Anita should always bypass Peyton in the chain of command.
D. No, because Peyton did not do anything wrong.

67. B
Yes, because Peyton engaged in an illegal activity. Despite the importance of following your company’s chain of command, there are several situations in which it’s okay—and required—to bypass it. If you witness your boss participating in an unethical or illegal activity, you should tell your company’s human resources manager. In this scenario, Peyton stealing money from the cash register is illegal, while Peyton telling Anita to forget what she saw is unethical. As a result, Anita should tell the human resources manager about Peyton's actions. Although Anita should bypass Peyton on the chain of command in this instance, she should not do so on a regular basis. In most cases, Anita should report to Peyton and should listen to what they say. Because Peyton's actions were wrong, illegal, and unethical, Anita should not listen to Peyton and should not forget what happened. 
SOURCE: PD:252 Follow chain of command
SOURCE: LAP-PD-252—Don’t Cheat the Chain (Following Chain of Command)

85. Tasks like showering regularly, caring for your hair, and brushing your teeth are how you practice 
A. hygiene.
B. body language.
C. accessories.
D. self-image.

85. A
Hygiene. You can do several easy things every day to take care of yourself and your body. This includes showering regularly, using deodorant, caring for your hair, and brushing and flossing your teeth. These habits and practices are called hygiene. By developing good, consistent hygiene habits, you can enhance your personal brand both on and off the job. Self-image, accessories, and body language are all related to personal appearance and personal branding, but they aren’t necessarily related to the aforementioned tasks. 
SOURCE: PD:002 Maintain appropriate personal appearance
SOURCE: LAP-PD-002—Look Good, Feel Good (Personal Appearance)

89. Why do small businesses tend to be more innovative than huge corporations? 
A. They require more decision-making.
B. They follow fewer laws.
C. They are more flexible.
D. They have more money to invest.

89. C
They are more flexible. Most small businesses are started by people who are pursuing a passion or trying to fill a market niche. These people probably wouldn’t have started their own businesses if they didn’t have big ideas! Small businesses have more flexibility to pursue those ideas. They often do not have to stick to rigid schedules or follow a predetermined set of rules. They have the freedom to do the work they want to do, and that freedom can lead to innovation. Huge corporations tend to have more money to invest and require more decision-making before proceeding with plans. Any size company is expected to follow appropriate laws and regulations. 
SOURCE: PD:126 Explain the need for innovation skills
SOURCE: LAP-PD-126—Ideas in Action (Innovation Skills)
2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 20 

97. Which of the following is a learning goal: 
A. Deliver a presentation without making a mistake.
B. Complete a 1,000-word manuscript in one month.
C. Receive at least a 9 out of 10 on a performance review.
D. Become an expert in a new graphic design software.

97. D
Become an expert in a new graphic design software. As a specific target, a goal can be a performance goal or a learning goal. If you’re evaluated on how well you do something (e.g., completing a manuscript on time, receiving a high performance review score, delivering a presentation without mistakes), you’re judged on your level of performance. A learning goal, on the other hand, has to do with mastering a new skill. For example, a graphic designer might decide they want to go on to learn a new software thoroughly and become an expert at using it. This is a learning goal they’ve set for themselves, and they’ll have completed it when they feel completely comfortable using the software. 
SOURCE: PD:018 Set personal goals
SOURCE: LAP-PD-918—Go for the Goal (Goal Setting)

9. After careful consideration, Kayla has decided to major in biology in college. Kayla's choice of major was most likely a(n) __________ decision. 
A. routine
B. extensive
C. limited
D. unlimited

9. B
Extensive. There are different types of decisions. You can make routine decisions—the ones you hardly have to think about, such as whether you should wear a clean T-shirt. You can make limited decisions—the ones that require a little time to look at each alternative, such as whether you should sign up for the drama club or flag football. And, you can make extensive decisions—the ones that demand a lot of careful consideration, such as what career you would like to begin to prepare for. Kayla's decision to major in biology was probably the result of lots of research, discussion, and planning—in other words, it was probably an extensive decision. 
SOURCE: PD:017 Make decisions
SOURCE: LAP-PD-017—Weigh Your Options (Decision-Making)

26. Because a business spends a lot of money to purchase and maintain office equipment, it expects its employees to 
A. ask others to operate equipment that they do not know how to use.
B. call service personnel when equipment is not working correctly.
C. develop procedures to fix the equipment.
D. use and handle the equipment with care.

26. D
Use and handle the equipment with care. A business expects its employees to carefully handle and use the business's office equipment. Equipment such as printers and computers are expensive investments for the business and can cost a lot of money to maintain and fix. Therefore, the business expects its employees to be careful with the equipment to reduce the risk of equipment breakdowns. Business managers, rather than employees, develop procedures for equipment handling. For example, a business might delegate responsibility to the office manager to contact service vendors when equipment needs to be fixed or maintained. It is not always necessary to call service people when equipment is not working correctly, such as a paper jam in a printer, which can usually be removed carefully by an employee. Employees should receive training to operate basic office equipment so they do not need to interrupt coworkers to ask them to perform simple tasks that they can easily do themselves. 
SOURCE: PD:020 Analyze employer expectations in the business environment
SOURCE: Southeastern Louisiana University. (2023). Employer expectations. Retrieved October 3, 2023,
from https://www.southeastern.edu/admin/career_srv/student_alumni/find_a_job/employer_expectations/ index.html 

52. Zola is writing a follow-up letter to a potential employer after her recent interview. Which of the following would be most appropriate to include in the letter: 
A. A desired salary and Zola's research regarding current compensation trends
B. A question regarding the company's vacation package so Zola can make plans
C. A reinforcement of how Zola's experience can help the company reach its goals
D. A copy of Zola's resume to ensure the employer sees all of her accomplishments

52. C
A reinforcement of how Zola's experience can help the company reach its goals. Thank-you notes and follow-up letters after interviews are good opportunities to clarify or reinforce information with the potential employer. Discussing salary and vacation packages in the follow-up letter is not appropriate; these conversations will likely take place during the interview or after an offer has been made. Including a copy of her resume with the follow-up letter would be redundant, as the interviewer should already have a copy of Zola's resume from her job application or interview. 
SOURCE: PD:029 Write a follow-up letter after job interviews
SOURCE: Harwood, L., Owens, L.M.D., & Kadakia, C. (2017). Your career: How to make it happen (9th ed.)
[Lesson 12-1b]. Boston, MA: Cengage Learning, Inc. 

59. Sammie has a job as a salesperson at a clothing retailer. How can she turn this job into a career? 
A. Take on more hours per week
B. Obtain a degree in fashion merchandising
C. Get a new job with a different retailer
D. Ask her manager for a pay raise

59. B
Obtain a degree in fashion merchandising. A job is a temporary means to an end that allows you to receive wages and gain experience. On the other hand, a career is a lifelong journey that builds on your skills and experiences, bringing you achievement and satisfaction. A job can be a step on the path to a career. One way that Sammie can advance her job into a career is obtaining a college degree in fashion merchandising, which will allow her to grow and be promoted within the field. Receiving a pay raise is a step in the right direction, but it does not necessarily turn a job into a career. Getting a new job with a different retailer is also not necessarily related to advancing a career. Finally, working more hours is not in and of itself a way to turn a job into a career. 
SOURCE: PD:034 Explain possible advancement patterns for jobs
SOURCE: Lawrence, G. (2018, December 28). The difference between a job, occupation, & career. Retrieved
October 3, 2023, from https://careertrend.com/info-8226168-difference-between-job-occupationcareer.html BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 14 

61. Which of the following is an example of a business situation in which employees might need to use problemsolving skills: 
A. An employee agrees to work overtime to complete a project.
B. A supervisor gives a senior employee a superior evaluation.
C. A new employee suggests changing an established procedure.
D. A manager asks an employee to be a mentor to a new hire.

61. C
A new employee suggests changing an established procedure. Conflicts in business sometimes occur when new employees recommend changing the way that long-time employees have been operating. The long-time employees may resent a new person, who has little experience with the company, making suggestions that imply that the employees are not performing as well as they could. The long-time employees may feel threatened and put up barriers to prevent the new employee from succeeding. In this situation, the new employee and the long-time employees need to discuss the problem and find an acceptable solution. Managers often ask experienced employees to be mentors to new hires. An employee who agrees to work overtime is not creating a problem. An employee's evaluation is confidential and would not create problems with other employees. 
SOURCE: PD:077 Demonstrate problem-solving skills
SOURCE: LAP-PD-077—No Problem (Demonstrating Problem-Solving Skills)

62. Leyla's teacher has told her that she seems to be able to learn new math skills very easily. The teacher has described one of Betsy's 
A. values.
B. aptitudes.
C. interests.
D. concepts.

62. B
Aptitudes. An aptitude is a natural talent for learning a specific skill. Leyla has an aptitude for working with numbers. Values are principles to live by. Concepts are ideas. Interests are things we are curious about, concerned for, or involved with. 
SOURCE: PD:013 Assess personal interests and skills needed for success in business
SOURCE: Indeed. (2022, December 13). What is aptitude? Definition and common tests. Retrieved October 4,
2023, from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/what-is-aptitude 

74. What aspect of their employers' codes of conduct are employees violating when they regularly come into work late or leave early? 
A. Safety
B. Appearance
C. Attendance
D. Harassment

74. C
Attendance. To provide a fair and consistent work environment, businesses develop rules of conduct. The rules of conduct outline a company's policies, procedures, and expectations regarding employees' behavior in the workplace. Businesses expect their employees to arrive at work on time and leave work at a designated time. Employees who continuously arrive late not only violate their employers' attendance rules, but cost the companies money for time that the employees are not working. Appearance refers to appropriate dress and hygiene in the workplace. Harassment issues involve saying or doing inappropriate things. Safety violations involve actions that pose harm to employees, coworkers, customers, or visitors. 
SOURCE: PD:251 Follow rules of conduct
SOURCE: Sherman, F. (2018, March 28). Code of conduct in a workplace. Retrieved October 4, 2023, from
https://work.chron.com/code-conduct-workplace-6237.html 

77. Which of the following is a characteristic of a good goal: 
A. Realistic
B. Safe
C. Convenient
D. Conservative

77. A
Realistic. One of the characteristics of a good goal is that it should be realistic and attainable. Your goals must be appropriate to you and your abilities. You must set goals that you are capable of reaching. These goals do not necessarily have to be conservative, convenient, or safe. 
SOURCE: PD:018 Set personal goals
SOURCE: LAP-PD-918—Go for the Goal (Goal Setting)
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 18 

82. Paul is a 45-year-old manager of a large company who makes offensive, gender-related comments to Elizabeth, a 28-year-old buyer, who has been with the company for six months. Paul's behavior violates Elizabeth's workplace rights because he is engaging in 
A. cultural supremacy.
B. ethnocentrism.
C. sexual harassment.
D. age discrimination.

82. C
Sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is any unwelcomed sexual remarks, advances, conduct, or requests. Employees have certain rights in the workplace, including the right to not be sexually harassed by other employees and managers. The example is not age discrimination, cultural supremacy, or ethnocentrism. 
SOURCE: PD:021 Explain the rights of workers
SOURCE: MSBA. (2018, March 12). Employees' rights in the workplace. Retrieved October 3, 2023, from
https://www.msba.org/employees-rights-in-the-workplace BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY 19 

85. In general, authority flows from __________ to __________ in a chain of command. 
A. employee; manager
B. department; department
C. top; bottom
D. bottom; top

85. C
Top; bottom. In general, authority flows from top to bottom within a chain of command. This means that each person within the hierarchy reports to the person directly above them. Authority does not flow from bottom to top, department to department, or from employee to manager within a chain of command. 
SOURCE: PD:252 Follow chain of command
SOURCE: LAP-PD-252—Don't Cheat the Chain (Following Chain of Command)

Business Management Administration 2024 Exams

10. Which of the following positions oversees the recruitment, training, performance, and safety of employees: 
A. Office manager
B. Operations manager
C. Human resources manager
D. Project manager

10. C
Human resources manager. A human resources manager is responsible for focusing on staffing activities, including the planning, recruitment, selection, orientation, performance appraisal, compensation, and safety of those employees. An operations manager is responsible for planning, organizing, coordinating, and controlling the resources needed to produce and provide a business's goods or services. An office manager facilitates business operations through information and communication management, data processing and collection, and project tracking. A project manager is responsible for overseeing all of the activities that are part of a project. 
SOURCE: PD:297 Discuss employment opportunities in business management and administration
SOURCE: LAP-PD-297—Career Opportunities in Business Management and Administration

36. Which of the following helps individuals understand how their actions, needs, interests, values, and motives affect their personal behavior: 
A. Self-understanding
B. Self-fulfillment
C. Self-preservation
D. Self-esteem

36. A
Self-understanding. Achieving self-understanding is a difficult and complex task that requires critical thinking. Self-understanding is important because it helps people to know themselves. Self-esteem is the way you feel about yourself. Self-fulfillment is reaching one's full potential. Self-preservation is the concern for one's welfare and physical safety. 
SOURCE: PD:013 Assess personal interests and skills needed for success in business
SOURCE: Betz, M. (2022, September 14). What is self-awareness and why is it important? Retrieved August 3,
2023, from https://www.betterup.com/blog/what-is-self-awareness BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 9 

55. Silas is unsure how to dress appropriately for his payroll manager job interview. Which of the following is a guideline that might help him select the proper attire: 
A. Clothing types should follow current trends.
B. Patterns and textures of clothing should be contrasting.
C. Business clothing usually should be conservative.
D. Articles of clothing should have several points of focus.

55. C
Business clothing usually should be conservative. Silas should try to create a positive first impression of himself by following certain guidelines for proper dress. Dressing conservatively, especially for an interview, is one of these guidelines. Silas does not want his appearance to distract the interviewer; he wants the interviewer to focus the discussion on Silas's qualifications for the payroll manager position. Other guidelines include wearing an outfit that has one focal point, wearing styles that are fashionable rather than trendy, and choosing coordinating patterns and textures. 
SOURCE: PD:002 Maintain appropriate personal appearance
SOURCE: LAP-PD-002—Brand Me (Personal Appearance)

56. One of the benefits of orderly and systematic behavior is that it should help you to achieve 
A. your own goals.
B. immediate success.
C. financial security.
D. personal popularity.

56. A
Your own goals. When you work in an efficient, effective manner, you are more likely to receive such rewards as praise, raises, and promotions. This helps you move forward in your career. It will not necessarily make you popular, make you an immediate success, or give you financial security. 
SOURCE: PD:009 Demonstrate systematic behavior
SOURCE: Eatough, E. (2023, May 8). How to set goals and achieve them. Retrieved August 3, 2023, from
https://www.betterup.com/blog/how-to-set-goals-and-achieve-them 

79. Because the company's president was impressed with Ed's willingness to accept additional tasks and carry them out without a lot of direction, they promoted Ed to a management position. What personal trait does Ed possess that helped him advance in his career? 
A. Self-control
B. Initiative
C. Self-confidence
D. Courage

79. B
Initiative. Workers who show initiative are willing to act without having to be told to do so. They are willing to accept or seek additional duties, which often exceed their employers' expectations. Workers who are competent and show initiative are often promoted to positions that give them more responsibility. Although courage, selfconfidence, and self-control are admirable qualities that often lead to career advancement, these traits are not related to accepting additional work and working without a lot of direction. 
SOURCE: PD:035 Identify skills needed to enhance career progression
SOURCE: Indeed. (2023, February 3). 9 ways to take initiative at work. Retrieved August 3, 2023, from
https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/ways-to-take-initiative-at-work 

98. Creativity is associated closely with the trait of 
A. imagination.
B. orderliness.
C. dependability.
D. patience.

98. A
Imagination. Creativity is based upon imagination and original thought. In fact, the terms creativity and imagination are often used as synonyms. Dependability, patience, and orderliness are not necessarily correlated with the trait of creativity. 
SOURCE: PD:012 Demonstrate appropriate creativity
SOURCE: LAP-PD-012—Imagine That (Demonstrating Creativity)

27. Bryson is responsible for helping his company properly hire and utilize its employees. Which type of business management and administration career does Bryson have? 
A. Operations management
B. Business analytics
C. Human resources management
D. Office management

27. C
Human resources management. Human resources management is the process of planning, staffing, leading, and organizing the employees of the business. Helping the company achieve its goals through the proper hiring and use of employees is one common human resources management job duty. This is not a job duty for employees in supply chain management, operations management, or business analytics. 
SOURCE: PD:297 Discuss employment opportunities in business management and administration
SOURCE: LAP-PD-297—Career Opportunities in Business Management and Administration

41. Jared wants to commit to managing his time better. He started by setting his goals and identifying his objectives before making monthly, weekly, and daily to-do lists. According to the time-management process, what is Jared's next step? 
A. Prioritize daily activities
B. Put his plan into action
C. Keep a time log
D. Schedule daily activities

41. A
Prioritize daily activities. The eight steps in the time-management process are set goals; identify objectives; create monthly, weekly, and daily to-do lists; prioritize daily activities; schedule daily activities; and follow your plan. Since Jared has already completed the first five steps of the process, his next step will be to prioritize his daily activities. Once he prioritizes them, he can schedule his daily activities before following his plan and putting it into action. Although keeping a time log may help Jared to better manage his time, it is not a step in the time-management process. 
SOURCE: PD:019 Use time-management skills
SOURCE: LAP-PD-019—About Time (Time Management)

52. Logic removes __________ from the decision-making process. 
A. personal involvement or emotion
B. input and advice from others
C. the possibility of making a mistake
D. the need for maximum input

52. A
Personal involvement or emotion. Logic helps you make sense of the facts. It involves comparing and contrasting information apart from personal involvement or emotion. It entails looking at the alternatives from a neutral point of view instead of from your perspective. Using logic does not necessarily remove the need for input from others, the possibility of making a mistake, or the need for maximum input. 
SOURCE: PD:017 Make decisions
SOURCE: LAP-PD-017— Weigh Your Options (Decision-Making)

72. Failure to follow the chain of command 
A. allows you to do your work in peace.
B. creates unnecessary complications for everyone.
C. may lead to you receiving a promotion.
D. reflects positively on you as an employee.

72. B
Creates unnecessary problems for everyone else. By not following the chain of command, you can create unnecessary complications for everyone else. Within a chain of command, everyone has their own specific responsibilities. When someone breaks the chain, complications can quickly begin to affect everyone. Not following the chain of command reflects poorly—not positively—on you, and it may get you in trouble. Not following the chain of command will likely not lead to you receiving a promotion; it is more likely you will be reprimanded, demoted, or even fired. A benefit of following the chain of command is that it maintains order in your organization, allowing you to do your work in peace. 
SOURCE: PD:252 Follow chain of command
SOURCE: LAP-PD-252—Don’t Cheat the Chain (Following Chain of Command)

41. One way for employees to enhance their career progression sometimes involves 
A. accepting criticism.
B. working safely.
C. changing jobs.
D. following rules.

41. C
Changing jobs. There are times when the best way to enhance career progression is to change jobs. A different job may offer more possibility for advancement or provide additional training. New jobs may include a better salary or more fringe benefits. When employees feel that they have no place to go in their current positions, changing jobs may be the best way to advance in their careers. Most employees need to accept criticism at some time during their careers. All employees are expected to work safely and follow the rules. 
SOURCE: PD:035 Identify skills needed to enhance career progression
SOURCE: Unitemps. (2022, December 16). Six practical tips for career progression. Retrieved September 21,
2023, from https://www.unitemps.com/career-advice/six-practical-tips-for-career-progression/ 

48. Chief operations officer, process improvement specialist, and call center supervisor are __________ positions. 
A. business analytics
B. human resources management
C. general management
D. operations management

48. D
Operations management. Chief operations officer, process improvement specialist, and call center supervisor are operations management positions. They are not general management, business analytics, or human resources management positions. Operations management professionals are responsible for planning, organizing, coordinating, and controlling the resources needed to produce and provide a business's goods and/or services. 
SOURCE: PD:297 Discuss employment opportunities in business management and administration
SOURCE: LAP-PD-297—Career Opportunities in Business Management and Administration

57. Tracy's friend David works for TPS Industries. When Tracy saw a job on the company's website that interested her, she contacted David to find out if he knew anything about the job. David told Tracy that he previously worked with the hiring manager on several projects and would put in a good word for her. In this situation, Tracy acted on an employment opportunity by 
A. requesting an internship.
B. setting up a meeting.
C. networking with others.
D. volunteering her time.

57. C
Networking with others. Networking involves connecting with others for the purpose of professional development or advancement. Many people obtain job leads by talking with family, friends, school counselors and alumni, former supervisors and coworkers, etc. In the example, Tracy's friend worked for the company that she was interested in working for. Tracy was not setting up a meeting; instead, she hoped that David could influence the hiring manager to set up an interview. Although volunteering and interning are ways to network with others, Tracy was not engaging in those activities in the situation described. 
SOURCE: PD:037 Use networking techniques to identify employment opportunities
SOURCE: JobMonkey. (2019, December 12). 9 reasons to join a professional organization. Retrieved
September 21, 2023, from https://www.jobmonkey.com/join-professional-organization/ 

59. Employees' creative suggestions often result in changes that increase ___________ and reduce expenses. 
A. efficiency
B. conflict
C. costs
D. losses

59. A
Efficiency. Creative thinking often results in suggestions for operational changes that serve to increase efficiency and reduce business expenses. Suggestions that tend to bring conflict, increased costs, and increased losses will probably be unwelcome. 
SOURCE: PD:012 Demonstrate appropriate creativity
SOURCE: LAP-PD-012—Imagine That (Demonstrating Creativity)

91. Which of the following statements regarding job applications is true: 
A. You should never include personal information that is inaccurate.
B. Job applications require you to have a cosigner if you are under 18.
C. You do not need to disclose any felonies you have been convicted of.
D. It's okay to omit a previous job if you left on bad terms.

91. A
You should never include personal information that is inaccurate. It is important to be completely honest and transparent when filling out job applications. Besides being unethical, lying on a job application can lead to serious consequences. If your employer finds out that you included false information on its job application, you will likely be fired—and have trouble finding jobs in the future. Most employers ask applicants to disclose whether they have been convicted of any felonies in the previous five years. It is not okay to omit any previous felony convictions, nor is it okay to omit a previous job if you left on bad terms. Job applicants that are under 18 usually need to obtain a work permit to apply for jobs. They do not typically need a cosigner on applications. 
SOURCE: PD:027 Complete a job application
SOURCE: Doyle, A. (2021, October 4). Information required to complete a job application. Retrieved September
21, 2023, from https://www.thebalance.com/information-required-to-complete-a-job-application2061573 

Entrepreneurship 2024 Exams

27. Which of the following statements regarding corporate governance is true: 
A. The focus of corporate governance is social rather than financial.
B. The principles of corporate governance often conflict with sustainability.
C. Small businesses do not need formal corporate governance.
D. Corporate governance keeps any one person from having too much control.

27. D
Corporate governance keeps any one person from having too much control. Corporate governance is the system by which directors handle their responsibility toward shareholders. It includes the techniques used to direct and manage a company, usually conducted by the board of directors. One of the roles of corporate governance is to keep one person in an organization from exerting too much control. This ensures fairness and accountability to stakeholders. It is not true that small businesses have no need for formal corporate governance; organizations of all sizes can benefit from it. The principles of corporate governance support and encourage sustainability, rather than conflicting with it. Finally, corporate governance focuses on both social and financial aspects of an organization. 
SOURCE: PD:213 Discuss the importance of corporate governance in business
SOURCE: ICAEW. (2023). What is corporate governance? Retrieved August 11, 2023, from
https://www.icaew.com/technical/corporate-governance/principles/principles-articles/does-corporategovernance-matter 

37. Which of the following is considered an external control mechanism impacting how a company functions: 
A. Industry standards
B. Payroll reviewed by leaders
C. Usernames and passwords
D. Segregation of duties

37. A
Industry standards. External controls are influences from outside a company that impact how it functions. They ensure that companies are accountable for their actions and uphold a certain standard of behavior. External control mechanisms include industry standards, government laws and regulations, union contracts, external audits, and media relations. Payroll reviewed by leaders, segregation of duties, and usernames and passwords are all internal control mechanisms. Internal controls are rules and procedures implemented by a company to manage its operations and create consistent outcomes. Internal controls are used by a company to ensure integrity, prevent fraud, and promote accountability. 
SOURCE: PD:214 Describe the components of a well-governed company (e.g., board of directors, reporting,
transparency, internal and external audit functions) 
SOURCE: Indeed. (2022, October 18). What is an external control? Definition and examples. Retrieved August
11, 2023, from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/external-control 

40. Which of the following is an internal factor that impacts corporate governance structures: 
A. Regulation
B. Independent audits
C. Segregation of duties
D. Industry association guidelines

40. C
Segregation of duties. Segregation of duties is a concept that refers to more than one person completing a task. Segregating duties helps companies avoid errors and misconduct that could be committed by one individual. Companies that institute segregation of duties are strengthening their corporate governance structures. Regulation, independent audits, and industry association guidelines are all external factors that affect corporate governance structures. 
SOURCE: PD:302 Identify the factors that impact governance structures
SOURCE: Davoren, J. (n.d.). Three types of corporate governance mechanisms. Retrieved August 11, 2023,
from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/three-types-corporate-governance-mechanisms-66711.html 

48. An organization should include independent members on its board of directors because they 
A. are less likely to act unethically.
B. understand the company's inner workings.
C. provide an objective perspective.
D. represent the interests of management.

48. C
Provide an objective perspective. An organization's board of directors should include both inside and independent members. Inside members are high-level executives, shareholders, or stakeholders in the organization. Independent members are not involved with the organization. They provide an objective view, keep the board transparent, and help balance out the power of the board. They do not represent the interests of management. They also do not necessarily understand the company's inner workings, at least not as well as inside members. Independent members are not necessarily any less likely to act unethically than inside members. 
SOURCE: PD:302 Identify the factors that impact governance structures
SOURCE: Knowledge @ Wharton. (2015, June 16). How independent directors bridge the information gap.
Retrieved August 11, 2023, from https://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article/how-independentdirectors-bridge-the-information-gap/ 

49. Yvonne wants her innovation to succeed, so she makes sure that there's a market for her innovation and that she has plenty of money and resources on hand. Which step of achieving innovation is Yvonne demonstrating? 
A. Researching
B. Making connections
C. Reducing risk
D. Being open-minded and flexible

49. C
Reducing risk. To be successful innovators, businesses need to reduce risk. Innovation is always risky, but by evaluating the potential market for their innovations and basing new innovations on previous experiences, businesses can decrease risk. It's also extremely important for a business to make sure it has enough money and resources to handle launching its innovation. Although making connections, being open-minded and flexible, and researching are all important steps businesses can take to achieve innovation, they are not illustrated in Yvonne's example. 
SOURCE: PD:126 Explain the need for innovation skills
SOURCE: LAP-PD-126—Ideas in Action (Innovation Skills)

66. What is an effect of monitoring your progress while working toward a goal? 
A. It increases the likelihood that you will succeed.
B. It makes your goal more challenging and time-consuming.
C. It encourages communication throughout the process.
D. It adds external pressure to accomplish tasks.

66. A
It increases the likelihood that you will succeed. The more often you monitor progress while working toward a goal, the more likely you will be to achieve it. Monitoring goal progress keeps you accountable and aware of where you are. Monitoring progress does not necessarily add external pressure to accomplish tasks, encourage communication, or make a goal more challenging and time-consuming. 
SOURCE: PD:257 Monitor progress in achieving organizational goals
SOURCE: Workfront. (2022, March 18). Business goal tracking. Retrieved August 11, 2023, from
https://www.workfront.com/strategic-planning/goals/goal-tracking ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 16 

3. External audits are different from internal audits in that external audits 
A. focus on proving the accuracy of financial statements.
B. focus on measuring current performance.
C. look for areas of improvement.
D. are conducted by someone within the company.

3. A
Focus on proving the accuracy of financial statements. An external audit looks at the accuracy of a company's financial statements as well as any other practices that could confirm the truthfulness of budget statements. Internal audits focus on a specific area of a company, measure current performance, and look for areas of improvement. Internal audits are conducted by someone within the company on the company's behalf, while external audits are usually conducted by a third party. 
SOURCE: PD:214 Describe the components of a well-governed company (e.g., board of directors, reporting,
transparency, internal and external audit functions) 
SOURCE: Caseware. (2023, July 27). Internal vs. external auditing. Retrieved January 8, 2024, from
https://www.caseware.com/us/resources/blog/internal-vs-external-auditing 

51. A company's board of directors provides accurate and clear information about its financial performance and conflicts of interest. This describes what principle of corporate governance? 
A. Transparency
B. Fairness
C. Risk management
D. Accountability

51. A
Transparency. Corporate governance refers to the system of rules, policies, and processes by which a company is controlled and directed. There are many principles a company may use in their corporate governance models, and one of the most common ones is transparency—the quality of being just as one seems and being open and truthful. In this scenario, the board of directors is demonstrating transparency by providing accurate and clear information about its financial performance and conflicts of interest. This scenario does not demonstrate fairness—treating shareholders, employees, etc. fairly and with equal consideration. This scenario does not describe accountability—accepting responsibility for actions and decisions, as well as the results of them. This scenario does not demonstrate risk management—determining all risks and deciding how to best control them. 
SOURCE: PD:302 Identify the factors that impact governance structures
SOURCE: Chen, J. (2023, October 31). Corporate governance: Definition, principles, models, and examples.
Retrieved January 8, 2024, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/c/corporategovernance.asp 

53. Which of the following is most likely to be included on a monthly to-do list: 
A. Take morning medication and vitamins
B. Play in volleyball league every weekend in September
C. Attend regular Monday afternoon work meeting
D. Pay rent and utilities by the 30th

53. D
Pay rent and utilities by the 30th. A to-do list is a list of activities that an individual plans to accomplish during a certain period of time. Paying rent and utilities is an example of something that would be included on a monthly to-do list because it is done once a month. Taking morning medication and vitamins is an example of something that would be included on a daily to-do list, because it needs to occur each day. Attending a regular Monday afternoon work meeting is something that would be included on a weekly to-do list. While the volleyball league occurs over the course of a month, there are games each weekend and therefore would more likely be on a weekly to-do list. 
SOURCE: PD:019 Use time-management skills
SOURCE: LAP-PD-019—About Time (Time Management)
2024 HS ICDC ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 14 

55. Which of the following is considered an internal control mechanism for a company: 
A. Separation of duties
B. Industry standards
C. Government regulations
D. Union contracts

55. A
Separation of duties. Internal controls are accounting and auditing processes used by a company to ensure proper financial reporting, prevent fraud, and make sure the company is complying with laws and regulations. Separation of duties is a common internal control a company may use, as it ensures no single individual is in charge of authorizing and recording a financial transaction. Union contracts, government regulations, and industry standards are examples of external controls—any influence from outside a company that impacts how it operates. 
SOURCE: PD:214 Describe the components of a well-governed company (e.g., board of directors, reporting,
transparency, internal and external audit functions) 
SOURCE: Kenton, W. (2024, January 17). Internal controls: Definition, types, and importance. Retrieved
February 2, 2024, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/i/internalcontrols.asp 

56. Which of the following statements about bylaws is true: 
A. They are not influenced by the board of directors.
B. They are the governing rules by which a corporation operates.
C. They are also known as Articles of Incorporation.
D. Their governing rules are consistent from state to state.

56. B
They are the governing rules by which a corporation operates. Bylaws refer to the governing rules by which a corporation operates. When a corporation is formed, the board of directors determines the bylaws by creating a single document encompassing all the rules. Bylaws can also be put in place by a society to regulate its citizens and maintain civility. To that end, the governing rules established by bylaws may vary, as corporations are regulated by states. Articles of Incorporation are different than bylaws. Articles of Incorporation are filed to establish a corporation, whereas bylaws are created by a board of directors after a company is formed. 
SOURCE: PD:302 Identify the factors that impact governance structures
SOURCE: Murray, J. (2020, June 30). What are bylaws? Retrieved January 8, 2024, from
https://www.thebalancemoney.com/what-are-bylaws-for-a-corporation-398148 

61. Which of the following is a benefit of good corporate governance: 
A. It can keep investors in the dark about a company's direction.
B. It divides the interests of shareholders and management.
C. It promotes short-term financial viability and opportunity.
D. It creates transparent rules and controls.

61. D
It creates transparent rules and controls. Corporate governance refers to the system of rules and processes by which a company is controlled and directed. Good corporate governance creates transparent rules and controls for a company and guides leadership. It also aligns the interests of a company's stakeholders, which can include shareholders, senior management, customers, suppliers, lenders, the government, and the community. In addition, good corporate governance helps build trust with investors and gives them a clear idea of a company's direction. Good corporate governance promotes long-term financial viability and opportunity, rather than short-term. 
SOURCE: PD:213 Discuss the importance of corporate governance in business
SOURCE: Chen, J. (2023, October 31). Corporate governance: Definition, principles, models, and examples.
Retrieved January 9, 2024, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/c/corporategovernance.asp 2024 HS ICDC ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 16 

8. Which of the following is an example of an extensive decision: 
A. Printing a document on yellow paper
B. Wearing a blue suit to a meeting
C. Hiring a new department manager
D. Booking an airline flight for a business trip

8. C
Hiring a new department manager. An extensive decision is a type of decision that requires a lot of consideration. Hiring a department manager is an extensive decision because the decision maker(s) must evaluate each applicant's skills in relation to the standards and expectations for the position. Often, this requires a lot of input from others, including other department managers and executive-staff members. Printing a document on yellow paper and wearing a blue suit to a meeting are routine decisions. Booking an airline flight for a business trip is an example of a limited decision because the individual has a few alternatives (flights) from which to choose. 
SOURCE: PD:017 Make decisions
SOURCE: LAP-PD-017—Weigh Your Options (Decision-Making)

22. Every six months, a company holds a meeting for all shareholders and explains how the company has been performing financially. Which component of a well-governed company is this an example of? 
A. Viability
B. Accountability
C. Fairness
D. Transparency

22. D
Transparency. Transparency is maintaining open and truthful communications. It is a principle of good governance because stakeholders should be informed about the company's activities. One way that companies can be transparent is by hosting shareholder meetings and sharing information about financial performance. Accountability is accepting responsibility for decisions. Fairness is the ability to make judgments and act without favoritism or self-interest. Viability is creating long-term value for all relevant stakeholders. This example is not related to accountability, fairness, or viability. 
SOURCE: PD:214 Describe the components of a well-governed company (e.g., board of directors, reporting,
transparency, internal and external audit functions) 
SOURCE: Chen, J. (2023, March 22). Corporate governance definition: How it works, principles, and
examples. Retrieved October 2, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/c/corporategovernance.asp ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 6 

25. Internal audits are used by __________, while external audits are used by __________. 
A. creditors; management
B. stakeholders; employees
C. management; stakeholders
D. employees; competitors

25. C
Management; stakeholders. Internal audits are performed for management within a company to analyze practices and examine risks. External audits are done by outside firms and are used by stakeholders such as investors, creditors, and lenders. External audits are generally not used by employees, management, or competitors. Internal audits are not used by stakeholders or creditors. 
SOURCE: PD:214 Describe the components of a well-governed company (e.g., board of directors, reporting,
transparency, internal and external audit functions) 
SOURCE: AccountingTools. (2023, February 26). The difference between internal and external audits.
Retrieved October 2, 2023, from https://www.accountingtools.com/articles/the-difference-betweeninternal-and-external-audits.html 

46. Performance standards should be 
A. subjective.
B. informally discussed.
C. extremely challenging.
D. measurable.

46. D
Measurable. When an organization is developing performance standards, it should ensure that those standards are measurable so that they can actually be used to evaluate performance. Performance standards should be objective rather than subjective. They also should be clearly stated in writing rather than informally discussed. Finally, performance standards should be realistic rather than extremely challenging. 
SOURCE: PD:256 Establish performance standards to meet organizational goals
SOURCE: U.S. Office of Personnel Management. (n.d.). Developing performance standards. Retrieved October
2, 2023, from https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/performance-management/performancemanagement-cycle/planning/developing-performance-standards 

69. Well-executed corporate governance ensures that an organization is managed in a way that is 
A. detrimental for competitors.
B. beneficial for all stakeholders.
C. most helpful for company leaders.
D. irrelevant to the public eye.

69. B
Beneficial for all stakeholders. Corporate governance refers to the way an organization is managed at the highest level. Well-executed corporate governance has many benefits, including corporate success and economic growth, investor confidence, and positive brand development. Good corporate governance also ensures that an organization is managed in a way that is most beneficial and least detrimental for everyone— employees, management, shareholders, as well as the general public—not most helpful for company leaders, detrimental for competitors, or irrelevant to the public eye. 
SOURCE: PD:213 Discuss the importance of corporate governance in business
SOURCE: Management Study Guide. (n.d.). Corporate governance—Definition, scope and benefits. Retrieved
October 2, 2023, from https://www.managementstudyguide.com/corporate-governance.htm ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 17 

73. Which of the following is the primary stakeholder influencing corporate governance: 
A. Company shareholders
B. Organizational employees
C. The board of directors
D. High-level company executives

73. C
The board of directors. The board of directors is the primary stakeholder affecting corporate governance. The board of directors exists to make important decisions for the company, including appointing corporate officers, setting executive compensation, and making dividend policies. The board of directors directly influences the company's corporate governance. Company shareholders, employees, and executives are not the primary stakeholders affecting corporate governance. 
SOURCE: PD:302 Identify the factors that impact governance structures
SOURCE: Chen, J. (2023, March 22). Corporate governance definition: How it works, principles, and
examples. Retrieved October 2, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/c/corporategovernance.asp ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 18 

Finance 2024 Exams

8. A strong professional relationship is usually a(n) __________ relationship. 
A. easily maintained
B. reciprocal
C. majority-rule
D. one-sided

8. B
Reciprocal. Strong professional relationships are essential for success in the finance industry, and for these relationships to be strong, they must also be reciprocal. A reciprocal relationship is one in which each member of the relationship helps the other. In finance, this usually means referring clients to each other for the different services that they require. For instance, a bank loan officer may refer clients to a particular insurance agent for their homeowners' insurance. Likewise, that insurance agent would refer clients interested in refinancing their mortgage or purchasing a home to the bank loan officer. A strong professional relationship in finance is not a one-sided or majority-rule relationship. Instead, the professionals should help each other and consider each other to be equals. A strong professional relationship is not necessarily easily maintained. 
SOURCE: PD:153 Discuss opportunities for building professional relationships in finance
SOURCE: Parsons, L. (2022, December 16). How to build business relationships. Retrieved August 8, 2023,
from https://professional.dce.harvard.edu/blog/how-to-build-business-relationships/ 

15. What do managers need to do to help employees understand their specific responsibilities in achieving the organization's goals? 
A. Create work subcultures
B. Collect information
C. Develop a mission statement
D. Communicate priorities

15. D
Communicate priorities. Employees carry out the work to achieve the organization's goals. To carry out the work, managers must communicate their work priorities to employees. When employees know and understand their priorities, they can perform the most important tasks before they tackle the less important tasks. An organization's mission statement guides the goal-setting process, but it does not provide specific information for completing specific work tasks. Although a variety of work subcultures (e.g., departmental, team, social) exist in most organizations, managers must communicate their work priorities to employees so that they can carry out tasks that will achieve organizational goals. Collected information must be communicated and acted upon to achieve the organization's goals. 
SOURCE: PD:255 Ascertain employee's role in meeting organizational goals
SOURCE: Forbes. (2023, January 10). How to effectively communicate company goals with your employees.
Retrieved August 9, 2023, from https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbesbusinesscouncil/2023/01/10/how-to-effectively-communicatecompany-goals-with-your-employees/?sh=47d0caf529f7 

21. Which of the following statements is true of finance careers: 
A. People skills are not necessary.
B. Soft skills are extremely important.
C. Only mathematical skills are necessary.
D. Communication skills are not important.

21. B
Soft skills are extremely important. Even though they may not initially seem like they are related to finance, soft skills are important in every industry. Soft skills include people skills and communication skills. Mathematical skills are necessary, but so are many other skills. 
SOURCE: PD:152 Discuss employment opportunities in the finance industry
SOURCE: LAP-PD-152—Career Opportunities in Finance

47. Corporate governance is intended to 
A. promote the company to customers.
B. decrease the accountability of a company.
C. defend the company in court.
D. mitigate risk and avoid problems.

47. D
Mitigate risk and avoid problems. Corporate governance is intended to help a company mitigate risk and avoid problems. It's meant to increase accountability. A marketing department would be in charge of promoting the company. Lawyers would be in charge of defending a company in court. 
SOURCE: PD:213 Discuss the importance of corporate governance in business
SOURCE: Chen, J. (2023, March 22). Corporate governance definition: How it works, principles, and
examples. Retrieved August 8, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/c/corporategovernance.asp 

51. Which of the following would afford finance professionals the best opportunity to build long-lasting relationships with other finance professionals: 
A. Actively participating in a local professional association for the finance industry
B. Regularly attending trade shows for the finance industry
C. Actively attending meetings sponsored by the local chamber of commerce
D. Occasionally auditing classes at a local postsecondary institution

51. A
Actively participating in a local professional association for the finance industry. Active participation in a professional organization specific to the finance industry affords finance professionals the opportunity to serve on committees, hold offices, and attend seminars with other local finance professionals. This involvement may result in a long-term professional relationship for the participants. Regularly attending trade shows for the finance industry is more likely to result in short-term relationships. Insufficient information is provided to determine whether the audited classes are for professionals in finance. Actively attending chamber of commerce meetings gives finance professionals the opportunity to develop professional relationships with people employed in a variety of industries—not necessarily with other finance professionals. 
SOURCE: PD:153 Discuss opportunities for building professional relationships in finance
SOURCE: AICPA. (n.d.). 3 reasons to get involved in professional organizations. Retrieved August 8, 2023,
from https://us.aicpa.org/interestareas/youngcpanetwork/resources/career/ 3reasonstogetinvolvedinprofessionalorganizations 

57. To effectively solve problems in business, employees need to 
A. respect the opinions of others.
B. be aggressive if necessary.
C. stand firm in their beliefs.
D. obtain support for their side.

57. A
Respect the opinions of others. Because of the diverse nature of the workplace, people from many different backgrounds and cultures often work together. These people frequently have different beliefs and opinions. Consequently, employees need to recognize that different people have different opinions and that those opinions should be respected. Employees will be better able to solve problems if they respect the opinions of others and try to find acceptable compromises. Taking sides in a conflict often divides the workforce and creates additional problems. The nature of problem-solving involves compromise rather than standing firm. Aggression is never the way to solve a problem. 
SOURCE: PD:077 Demonstrate problem-solving skills
SOURCE: LAP-PD-077—No Problem (Demonstrating Problem-Solving Skills)

71. Which of the following business activities is most likely to impact an organization's governance structures: 
A. Hiring a new sales representative
B. Developing a marketing strategy
C. Raising prices on consumer goods
D. Borrowing money from a bank

71. D
Borrowing money from a bank. Banks often require an organization with a loan to follow external control mechanisms that impact its governance structures. Hiring employees, developing a marketing strategy, and raising prices are all common business activities that are not likely to impact an organization's governance structures. 
SOURCE: PD:302 Identify the factors that impact governance structures
SOURCE: Davoren, J. (n.d.). Three types of corporate governance mechanisms. Retrieved August 8, 2023,
from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/three-types-corporate-governance-mechanisms-66711.html 

73. Wonka Industries runs routine internal audits and divides the responsibilities of important projects among several managers. As a result, the company enjoys smooth day-to-day operations and improved performance. This is an example of the impact of __________ on decision-making and management functions. 
A. community involvement
B. external regulations
C. corporate governance processes
D. public relations efforts

73. C
Corporate governance processes. Internal corporate governance processes, or control mechanisms, include oversight of management, independent internal audits, and the segregation of duties. Internal control mechanisms are designed to ensure smooth day-to-day operations, clarify the chain of command, and measure organizational performance. This example demonstrates the impact of internal corporate governance processes on decision-making and management functions—not external regulations, community involvement, or public relations efforts. 
SOURCE: PD:303 Describe the impact of governance processes on decision-making and management
functions 
SOURCE: Davoren, J. (n.d.). Three types of corporate governance mechanisms. Retrieved August 8, 2023,
from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/three-types-corporate-governance-mechanisms-66711.html 

79. If three employees have the same level of ability and competence, what factor might a business use to decide which one to promote? 
A. Gender
B. Age
C. Seniority
D. Tenure

79. C
Seniority. Seniority refers to the length of time an individual has been employed by a business. Those who have been employed the longest have the most seniority. When all other factors, such as ability and competence, are equal, businesses often promote on the basis of seniority. The feeling often is that a competent person who has been with the company for a long time is entitled to a promotion before a competent person who has less time on the job. It is illegal for businesses to promote employees based on their gender or age. Tenure is a status given to teachers after a certain amount of time that protects them from being dismissed. 
SOURCE: PD:034 Explain possible advancement patterns for jobs
SOURCE: Heathfield, S. (2019, November 27). What seniority means at work. Retrieved August 9, 2023,
from https://www.thebalance.com/what-seniority-means-at-work-1919372 

80. Sharon is in charge of examining and preparing financial records at her company. What category of finance careers does she likely work in? 
A. Securities and investments
B. Banking services
C. Insurance
D. Accounting

80. D
Accounting. One simple way of describing accountants is that they examine and prepare financial records. This involves activities like bookkeeping, systems design, analysis, and interpretation of accounting information. Although careers in insurance, securities and investments, and banking services may involve financial records, examining and preparing them is not the main duty as it is in accounting careers. 
SOURCE: PD:152 Discuss employment opportunities in the finance industry
SOURCE: LAP-PD-152—Career Opportunities in Finance

83. In which of the following ways can employees contribute to the achievement of governance objectives: 
A. Report progress to shareholders
B. Create policies to enforce objectives
C. Draft bylaws that all must follow
D. Provide feedback to improve objectives

83. D
Provide feedback to improve objectives. The board of directors should obtain feedback from employees about the company's direction. This can help improve governance objectives and align them with the company's vision. In this way, employees have a say in the company's goals and will be more likely to work toward achieving them. Drafting bylaws is generally the role of an organization's founders or directors, rather than employees. Creating policies to enforce objectives is usually a task for the board of directors, rather than employees. Reporting progress to shareholders is also generally the responsibility of the board members, rather than that of employees. 
SOURCE: PD:301 Ascertain employee's role in achieving governance objectives
SOURCE: Nordmeyer, B. (2019, August 22). Corporate governance objectives. Retrieved August 8, 2023, from
https://yourbusiness.azcentral.com/corporate-governance-objectives-17344.html 

94. An organization's board of directors must always act in the best interest of the organization rather than themselves. What word best describes this responsibility? 
A. Ad hoc
B. Fair market
C. Actuary
D. Fiduciary

94. D
Fiduciary. A fiduciary duty is the commitment to act in the best interests of another person or organization (even when those interests are at odds with your own). Board members have a fiduciary responsibility to the organization, so they must always act for its benefit. An actuary is a person who assesses risk. Ad hoc means short-term or created for a particular or temporary reason. Fair market typically refers to fair market value and means a company's worth according to the marketplace. 
SOURCE: PD:214 Describe the components of a well-governed company (e.g., board of directors, reporting,
transparency, internal and external audit functions) 
SOURCE: Pounds, R. (2022, May 4). The roles and responsibilities of a board of directors. Retrieved August 8,
2023, from https://www.diligent.com/resources/blog/the-roles-and-responsibilities-of-a-board-ofdirectors FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 22 

96. What type of organizational goal involves setting standards in relation to the target market's expectations? 
A. Consumer
B. Employee
C. Technology
D. Financial

96. A
Consumer. Businesses set different types of organizational goals. When a business sets standards to accommodate the target market's needs and wants, it is setting consumer-oriented goals. Employees often use technology to carry out the activities used to achieve the business's consumer goals. Financial goals are objectives that are measured in terms of money. 
SOURCE: PD:254 Determine the nature of organizational goals
SOURCE: Chron. (2020, October 12). Customer orientation examples. Retrieved August 9, 2023, from
http://smallbusiness.chron.com/customer-orientation-examples-10201.html 

13. Which of the following is an external factor that impacts corporate governance structures: 
A. Company code of conduct
B. Independent audits
C. Segregation of duties
D. Change in leadership

13. B
Independent audits. An independent audit is an examination of a business’s financial records or operations by an outside organization or institution. Segregation of duties is a concept that refers to more than one person being responsible for different aspects of completing a task. Segregating duties is a mechanism that is implemented within the company. A change in leadership and a company’s code of conduct would be internal factors that impact corporate governance structures. 
SOURCE: PD:302 Identify the factors that impact governance structures
SOURCE: Davoren, J. (n.d.). Three types of corporate governance mechanisms. Retrieved December 21,
2023, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/three-types-corporate-governance-mechanisms66711.html 

19. A loan officer would be an example of a career in 
A. insurance.
B. accounting.
C. corporate finance.
D. banking services.

19. D
Banking services. There are many jobs to be had within banking, one of which is a loan officer. A loan officer is a person who specializes in finding clients and helping them to apply for loans, such as commercial, consumer, or mortgage. Loan officers do not work in accounting, insurance, or corporate finance. 
SOURCE: PD:152 Discuss employment opportunities in the finance industry
SOURCE: LAP-PD-152—Career Opportunities in Finance

23. Which of the following is typically the most important part of following the chain of command: 
A. Bypassing your boss when they are too busy to help
B. Always doing what your manager asks of you
C. Waiting to learn about the entire chain of command
D. Reporting to the person directly above you

23. D
Reporting to the person directly above you. One of the most important parts of following the chain of command is to report to the person directly above you. Once you have identified the individual directly above you in the chain of command, report to them whenever you have a question, concern, or idea. Your direct supervisor should be the person that you interact with the most on a daily basis. Unless your manager asks you to do something unethical or illegal, you should do what they say. Even if your boss is too busy to offer you immediate help, you should not bypass them on the chain of command. One of the first things you should do when you are hired is figure out your company’s organizational structure and chain of command. 
SOURCE: PD:252 Follow chain of command
SOURCE: LAP-PD-252—Don’t Cheat the Chain (Following Chain of Command)

24. Insufficient corporate governance may lead to 
A. increased accountability.
B. decreased transparency.
C. decreased corruption.
D. increased investor confidence.

24. B
Decreased transparency. Corporate governance creates a more transparent business environment, which can increase investor confidence and minimize corruption. When corporate governance is insufficient, corruption can increase and investor confidence can decrease. Corporate governance keeps any one person from having too much control, therefore insufficient corporate governance reduces accountability within the organization. 
SOURCE: PD:213 Discuss the importance of corporate governance in business
SOURCE: Chen, J. (2023, October 31). Corporate governance definition: How it works, principles, and
examples. Retrieved December 20, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/c/corporategovernance.asp 

26. Transcend Industries requires employees to scan their ID badges to access company buildings. This is an example of a __________ policy. 
A. discrimination/harassment
B. health and safety
C. leave
D. disciplinary

26. B
Health and safety. Health and safety policies are designed to protect employees and customers from harm. Common health and safety guidelines include requiring employees to scan ID badges to access company buildings, display “wet floor” signs when necessary, and use the handrails on staircases. A disciplinary policy outlines how employees will be punished for breaking company rules. Leave policies describe how many days of paid and unpaid leave employees are entitled to. Policies regarding discrimination and harassment are intended to keep employees and customers safe from inappropriate and hurtful behavior. Requiring employees to scan their ID badges is not a disciplinary, leave, or discrimination/harassment policy. 
SOURCE: PD:250 Adhere to company protocols and policies
SOURCE: LAP-PD-250—Do You Follow? (Adhering to Company Protocols and Policies)
2024 HS ICDC FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 7 

35. Employees in leadership positions should make management decisions based on their company’s 
A. insurance policy.
B. foreign investments.
C. governance processes.
D. target demographic.

35. C
Governance processes. Governance provides a framework for decision-making and management. Managers must work within the guidelines and processes established by the governing body. While a company’s target demographic, foreign investments, and insurance policies are important, they should not greatly influence management decisions within the company. 
SOURCE: PD:303 Describe the impact of governance processes on decision-making and management
functions 
SOURCE: Chen, J. (2023, October 31). Corporate governance definition: How it works, principles, and
examples. Retrieved December 20, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/c/corporategovernance.asp 2024 HS ICDC FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 9 

51. Which of the following has a direct effect on an organization’s corporate governance policies: 
A. Company bylaws
B. Physical inventory
C. Marketing strategies
D. Point-of-sales quotas

51. A
Company bylaws. Company bylaws are a set of high-level rules and guidelines that govern how a company will operate. Corporate governance can be greatly impacted by company bylaws because bylaws represent the specific rules and policies that comprise an organization’s corporate governance policy. A marketing strategy is a plan of action for achieving marketing goals and objectives. Point-of-sales quotas are a type of sales-volume quota in which salespeople receive a number of points for each dollar or product sold. Physical inventory is the actual count of items of stock for a business. 
SOURCE: PD:302 Identify the factors that impact governance structures
SOURCE: Schmidt, L. (2023, September 19). Everything you need to know about company bylaws. Retrieved
December 21, 2023, from https://www.wolterskluwer.com/en/expert-insights/everything-you-need-toknow-about-company-bylaws 2024 HS ICDC FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 13 

55. Employees in the finance industry can become members of a local __________ to build long-lasting relationships in their career field. 
A. recreational sports team
B. credit union
C. professional association
D. political party

55. C
Professional association. Active participation in a professional organization specific to the finance industry affords finance professionals the opportunity to serve on committees, hold offices, and attend seminars with other local finance professionals. This involvement may result in long-term professional relationships for the participants. Credit unions are institutions that provide savings and loan services—joining a credit union makes that person a part-owner, but it does not necessarily build relationships with other finance professionals. Joining a political party or sports team may help build relationships with like-minded individuals but not necessarily those in the same career field. 
SOURCE: PD:153 Discuss opportunities for building professional relationships in finance
SOURCE: AICPA. (n.d.). 3 reasons to get involved in professional organizations. Retrieved August 8, 2023,
from https://us.aicpa.org/interestareas/youngcpanetwork/resources/career/3reasonstogetinvolved inprofessionalorganizations 2024 HS ICDC FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 14 

59. Mikel is responsible for interpreting financial information and systems design for his company. What type of career does he likely work in? 
A. Banking services
B. Securities and investments
C. Insurance
D. Accounting

59. D
Accounting. One simple way of describing accountants is that they examine and prepare financial records. This involves activities like bookkeeping, systems design, analysis, and interpretation of accounting information. Although careers in insurance, securities and investments, and banking services careers may involve financial records, interpreting them is not the main duty as it is in accounting careers. 
SOURCE: PD:152 Discuss employment opportunities in the finance industry
SOURCE: LAP-PD-152—Career Opportunities in Finance
2024 HS ICDC FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 15 

66. What is a way in which a business can align its employees with its objectives? 
A. Avoid holding coaching sessions with employees
B. Only meet with employees when they request it
C. Create complicated mission and vision statements
D. Allow employees to shift their goals

66. D
Allow employees to shift their goals. One way a business can align its employees with its objectives is to allow employees to shift their goals. Managers should regularly meet with employees (not just when employees request it) to evaluate progress and to adjust goals as needed. Sometimes, managers and employees may determine that goals they set were unrealistic or not challenging enough. In those cases, it is important to have a dialogue with employees to adjust goals accordingly. Companies should create easy to remember mission and vision statements. Managers should offer coaching sessions to their employees. This can help employees understand why they are doing their work and how it connects with the company's mission and vision. 
SOURCE: PD:301 Ascertain employee's role in achieving governance objectives
SOURCE: Kinsey, A. (2020, July 13). How to align employees with company goals. Retrieved December 28,
2023, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/business-creed-25045.html 

73. Which of the following is responsible for creating and reviewing corporate governance policies for a business: 
A. Board of managers
B. Board of directors
C. Board of accountancy
D. Board of elections

73. B
Board of directors. A corporation's board of directors is responsible for approving and reviewing the corporate governance policies of the business. These corporate governance policies specify the guidelines and rules by which a corporation is directed and run. The boards of elections are local organizations that help run local elections. The board of accountancy regulates accounting practices. A board of managers runs day-to-day operations in a business and would typically not be involved in creating and reviewing corporate governance policies. 
SOURCE: PD:213 Discuss the importance of corporate governance in business
SOURCE: Chen, J. (2023, October 31). Corporate governance definition: How it works, principles, and
examples. Retrieved December 20, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/c/corporategovernance.asp 

78. Leona, a professional accountant, attends a local accounting conference to meet business associates and discuss career opportunities. What career advancement activity is this known as? 
A. Networking
B. Coordinating
C. Selling
D. Socializing

78. A
Networking. When people connect with others who might help them accomplish their personal career and professional goals, they are networking. Finance professionals might learn about employment and continuing education opportunities as well as prospective clients (selling opportunities) through the networking process. Socializing involves personal activities rather than professional activities. Coordinating is linking activities together in a systematic or organized way. 
SOURCE: PD:153 Discuss opportunities for building professional relationships in finance
SOURCE: Rodriguez, E. (2023). Networking tips for finance professionals. Retrieved December 20, 2023, from
https://business.fiu.edu/academics/graduate/insights/posts/networking-tips-for-financeprofessionals.html 

84. A company’s board of directors is responsible for acting in the best interest of the company’s 
A. shareholders.
B. chief executive officer.
C. chief financial officer.
D. mid-level managers.

84. A
Shareholders. A company's board of directors represents the interests of the shareholders through the board's management of the company. The board of directors has the responsibility of protecting shareholders' investments. While the board of directors does communicate with the chief executive officer (CEO) and chief financial officer (CFO), the board is not directly beholden to them. Shareholders do not act in the best interest of mid-level managers. 
SOURCE: PD:214 Describe the components of a well-governed company (e.g., board of directors, reporting,
transparency, internal and external audit functions) 
SOURCE: McNamara, C. (2023, July 18). Board of directors: Roles and responsibilities overview. Retrieved
December 21, 2023, from https://management.org/boards/responsibilities.htm 2024 HS ICDC FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 21 

89. When a person uses a decision-making model to make a choice, they can trust that they 
A. achieved success.
B. carefully evaluated alternatives.
C. made the best possible choice.
D. followed their intuition.

89. B
Carefully evaluated alternatives. When a person uses a decision-making model, they can trust that they are making a good effort to make a decision by carefully evaluating all the alternatives available. There is no way to ensure that a decision is actually the best choice or achieves success until after the decision has been carried out and any potential consequences have occurred. A person using a decision-making model does not necessarily trust their intuition is right when making a decision. 
SOURCE: PD:017 Make decisions
SOURCE: LAP-PD-017— Weigh Your Options (Decision-Making)

95. Which of the following is an example of a corporate governance process intended to promote transparency: 
A. Promoting a top executive
B. Conducting internal audits
C. Hosting brainstorming sessions
D. Complying with external regulations

95. B
Conducting internal audits. Internal audits are an example of effective corporate governance because they promote transparency and accountability. Audits ensure smooth day-to-day operations, clarify the chain of command, and measure organizational performance. Hosting brainstorming sessions, promoting executives, and complying with external regulations are corporate governance processes, but they do not promote transparency. 
SOURCE: PD:303 Describe the impact of governance processes on decision-making and management
functions 
SOURCE: Davoren, J. (n.d.). Three types of corporate governance mechanisms. Retrieved December 21,
2023, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/three-types-corporate-governance-mechanisms66711.html 

3. Protecting the investments of shareholders is a primary responsibility of 
A. company employees.
B. company lawyers.
C. the board of directors.
D. upper level managers.

3. C
The board of directors. The board of directors has the responsibility of protecting shareholders' investments, developing the company's mission and structure, and governing all the activities of the organization. These responsibilities do not belong to company employees, to upper level managers, or even to company lawyers. 
SOURCE: PD:214 Describe the components of a well-governed company (e.g., board of directors, reporting,
transparency, internal and external audit functions) 
SOURCE: McNamara, C. (2023, July 18). Board of directors: Roles and responsibilities overview. Retrieved
September 29, 2023, from https://management.org/boards/responsibilities.htm 

5. Tanya recently enrolled in night classes to learn how to code. She knows that her new skills will help her perform her current job more effectively—and perhaps even earn her a promotion. Tanya understands 
A. that her employer will fire her if she doesn't learn to code.
B. the need for ongoing education as a worker.
C. that younger employees are less qualified than her.
D. the push for employees to work longer hours.

5. B
The need for ongoing education as a worker. Returning to school to learn new skills can help employees excel at their current jobs—and even position them for promotions in the future. Tanya understands the importance of learning new skills for her professional career. There is not enough information provided to determine if she believes that younger employees are less qualified than her, that she needs to work longer hours, or that her employer will fire her if she doesn't learn to code. 
SOURCE: PD:033 Explain the need for ongoing education as a worker
SOURCE: Sanchez, A. (2023, May 11). Employers benefit from continuing ed for employees. Retrieved
September 28, 2023, from https://continuingstudies.wisc.edu/blog/employers-benefit-fromcontinuing-ed-for-employees 

7. Employee involvement in company decisions often leads to greater employee 
A. burnout.
B. satisfaction.
C. sales.
D. relocation.

7. B
Satisfaction. Involving employees in business decisions often leads to increased job satisfaction and investment in the company, as employees see that their ideas are heard and valued. While not all decisions require employee consultation, it is often to the benefit of the company that it take advantage of employee involvement. It is less likely or not likely at all that employee involvement would lead to employee burnout, sales, or relocation. 
SOURCE: PD:301 Ascertain employee's role in achieving governance objectives
SOURCE: Heathfield, S.M. (2019, July 26). What does employee involvement actually look like? Retrieved
September 29, 2023, from https://www.liveabout.com/employee-involvement-1918100 

40. A company's board of directors is often responsible for __________ and __________ the top executives. 
A. supporting; assessing
B. promoting; networking
C. replacing; auditing
D. encouraging; shadowing

40. A
Supporting; assessing. The board of directors is responsible for helping an organization reach its goals while meeting stakeholder needs. This often includes hiring, supporting, and assessing the performance of the organization's top executives. The board of directors does not usually shadow or audit the top executives. While it's possible for members of a board of directors to encourage, promote, and make networking connections for top executives, those are not necessarily responsibilities of the board. 
SOURCE: PD:303 Describe the impact of governance processes on decision-making and management
functions 
SOURCE: Chen, J. (2023, August 18). Board of directors: What it is, what its role is. Retrieved September 29,
2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/b/boardofdirectors.asp 

43. People most often write letters of application when responding to job leads they have found 
A. through networking.
B. in business windows.
C. in publicity brochures.
D. online.

43. D
Online. People often write letters of application when responding to jobs listed online. The purpose of the letter is to briefly explain the person's qualifications for the advertised job. The letter of application, or cover letter, usually accompanies the person's resume. People usually do not find job leads in publicity brochures. People who see "help wanted" signs in store windows generally apply in person rather than write letters of application. Finally, a letter of application is less likely when the job is found through networking because the person has already had the chance to explain their qualifications while networking. 
SOURCE: PD:030 Write a letter of application
SOURCE: Isaacs, K. (2023). Should you always send a cover letter? Retrieved September 28, 2023, from
https://www.monster.com/career-advice/article/cover-letter-point-counterpoint 

44. To obtain a job promotion is an example of a __________ goal. 
A. physical
B. social
C. personal
D. career

44. D
Career. Career goals are goals connected with work (e.g., added responsibility, a new job title, or a promotion). An example of a personal goal might be to improve self-control in trying situations. To run two miles every day is an example of a physical goal. To make new friends is an example of a social goal. 
SOURCE: PD:018 Set personal goals
SOURCE: LAP-PD-918—Go for the Goal (Goal Setting)

48. Why do businesses implement chains of command? 
A. To prevent employees from staging an uprising
B. To satisfy the requirements of labor unions
C. To keep business operations flowing smoothly
D. To present a positive image to the public

48. C
To keep business operations flowing smoothly. Businesses of all shapes, sizes, and industries implement chains of command to keep their operations flowing smoothly and efficiently. A chain of command can help improve productivity, efficiency, and communication within an organization. Businesses do not implement chains of command to prevent employees from staging an uprising, to present a positive image to the public, or to satisfy the requirements of labor unions. 
SOURCE: PD:252 Follow chain of command
SOURCE: LAP-PD-252—Don't Cheat the Chain (Following Chain of Command)

56. Blake is interested in a career in finance. He values flexibility, life-work balance, and entrepreneurship. What type of career should Blake pursue? 
A. Hedge fund trader
B. Portfolio manager
C. Underwriter
D. Certified financial planner

56. D
Certified financial planner. Certified financial planners are financial advisors who work at small firms and help guide clients in reaching their financial goals. Compared to other financial industry jobs, such as investment banking or trading, the competition is less intense and there is more flexibility in hours and location. Certified financial planners also must pursue their own clients and sometimes manage all aspects of the business. Blake would be well-suited for this position because of his values, some of which might conflict with the stressful hours and inflexibility that are associated with being an underwriter, hedge fund trader, or portfolio manager. 
SOURCE: PD:152 Discuss employment opportunities in the finance industry
SOURCE: Folger, J. (2022, December 12). Is finance a good career path? Retrieved September 29, 2023, from
https://www.investopedia.com/articles/financial-careers/08/financial-career-optionsprofessionals.asp FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 14 

64. Good governance is most likely to make a company's investment decisions 
A. more vulnerable to outside risk.
B. subject to individuals' influence.
C. more ethical.
D. less regulated.

64. C
More ethical. Governance objectives are often based on integrity and ethical principles. Therefore, if a company has strong governance practices, it is likely to be ethical in its investment decisions. Good governance should not make investment decisions subject to the influence of individuals. Rather, it should remove interference from individuals by giving the board independence to make decisions free of influence. Good governance does not necessarily make investment decisions less regulated; in fact, it gives the board of directors the power to enact financial controls and monitor reporting. Finally, governance makes a company's investment decisions less vulnerable to risk because the governance objectives and policies should preemptively lessen the potential for risks. 
SOURCE: PD:303 Describe the impact of governance processes on decision-making and management
functions 
SOURCE: Cole-Ingait, P. (n.d.). The impact of corporate governance practices on the investment decisions of
companies. Retrieved September 29, 2023, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/impact-corporategovernance-practices-investment-decisions-companies-79389.html FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 16 

76. How can a board of directors make sure all employees are involved in achieving corporate governance objectives? 
A. Train employees on governance objectives
B. Present objectives to upper management
C. Restrict access to governance goals
D. Leave roles and responsibilities undefined

76. A
Train employees on governance objectives. One way that a board of directors can make sure employees are involved and motivated to work toward corporate governance objectives is to train employees on company goals. Training gives employees the skills and knowledge they need to achieve objectives. Presenting objectives to upper management does not necessarily involve all employees in corporate governance; rather, it only includes upper management. Restricting access to governance goals does not allow all employees to understand corporate governance objectives. Finally, it is important to clearly define roles and responsibilities in achieving corporate governance objectives, rather than leaving roles and responsibilities undefined. 
SOURCE: PD:301 Ascertain employee's role in achieving governance objectives
SOURCE: Kinsey, A. (2020, July 13). How to align employees with company goals. Retrieved September 29,
2023, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/align-employees-company-goals-11667.html FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 19 

80. Which of the following principles should businesses practice to achieve open and honest corporate governance that builds stakeholder trust and holds leadership accountable: 
A. Fairness
B. Empathy
C. Transparency
D. Viability

80. C
Transparency. Transparency means being open and truthful when communicating. Corporate governance (the system by which directors handle their responsibility toward shareholders) that is built upon transparency is open and honest, with well-built stakeholder trust and accountable leadership. Empathy is the ability to relate to the feelings, thoughts, and experiences of other people. Fairness is the ability to make judgments and act without favoritism or self-interest. Viability is the long-term value of your choices and actions. 
SOURCE: PD:213 Discuss the importance of corporate governance in business
SOURCE: Price, N.J. (2018, October 10). The principles of good corporate governance. Retrieved September
29, 2023, from https://www.diligent.com/insights/corporate-governance/the-principles-of-goodcorporate-governance FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 20 

86. One way to build professional relationships in the finance industry is to 
A. encourage others to discuss their finances.
B. read about industry trends.
C. implement a referral system.
D. print new business cards for distribution.

86. C
Implement a referral system. A referral is a recommendation given to an individual or business by another individual or business. For example, satisfied clients may refer their friends, family, or colleagues to their financial planners for financial advice. This is one way that businesspeople working in the finance industry can build professional relationships. A financial planner may implement a referral system or program to encourage clients or associates to provide referrals. A referral system might involve giving a free consultation or discount to a client who has provided the financial planner with a lucrative referral. Reading about industry trends and printing new business cards are not actions that build professional relationships. The finance professional must take action on the trends they have researched and distribute the business cards to others to begin building professional relationships. Because financial information is personal and confidential, people are usually selective with whom they share their information. 
SOURCE: PD:153 Discuss opportunities for building professional relationships in finance
SOURCE: Das, K. (2020). 4 steps you must take to develop a lasting referral relationship. Retrieved September
29, 2023, from https://www.brightervision.com/blog/develop-referral-relationship 

92. A shareholder's role in governance structures includes 
A. handling everyday business operations.
B. reporting the business's success and progress.
C. electing members to the board of directors.
D. carrying out daily tasks aligned with a company's mission.

92. C
Electing members to the board of directors. Shareholders own the corporation. They have a limited role in everyday tasks but have the power to elect members to or remove members from the board of directors. They also vote on amending bylaws, disposition of corporate assets, and major corporate changes, among other things. The board of directors reports the business's success and progress to shareholders, sets the mission and structure of a company, drafts and amends the company bylaws, and appoints committees. Officers (president or CEO, vice president, treasurer, secretary, etc.) report to the board of directors, are responsible for everyday business operations, and act in the best interest of the company. Employees are responsible for carrying out tasks aligned with the company's mission and, essentially, make the business run. 
SOURCE: PD:302 Identify the factors that impact governance structures
SOURCE: Johnson, J. (2023, July 17). The organizational structure of a corporation. Retrieved September 29,
2023, from https://www.freeadvice.com/legal/the-organizational-structure-of-a-corporation 

98. Which of the following is a benefit of networking for a finance professional: 
A. Improving marketing skills
B. Gaining insider information about other companies
C. Prevention of job loss
D. Growth in technical knowledge

98. D
Growth in technical knowledge. By forming relationships with other finance professionals, you can gain technical knowledge and improve your own skills by learning from others. Networking cannot necessarily prevent job loss, although it might help inform you about changes, risks, or opportunities in the industry. Generally, professional relationships in finance should not and do not include sharing insider information about different companies, as this is unethical, if not illegal. Finally, improving marketing skills does not necessarily relate to building professional relationships in finance. 
SOURCE: PD:153 Discuss opportunities for building professional relationships in finance
SOURCE: Rodriguez, E. (2023). Networking tips for finance professionals. Retrieved September 29, 2023, from
https://business.fiu.edu/academics/graduate/insights/posts/networking-tips-for-financeprofessionals.html 

Hospitality 2024 Exams

3. To achieve a good work-life balance, you should always 
A. budget your time and energy.
B. do activities you enjoy.
C. set high personal goals.
D. complete work tasks first.

3. A
Budget your time and energy. The best way to achieve work-life balance is to budget your time and energy. Being aware of your own limits can help you avoid overcommitting to outside responsibilities or taking on too many projects at work. Always completing work tasks first can cause your personal life to suffer. Regularly doing activities you enjoy can cause you to neglect work responsibilities. When setting goals, it is important to create balanced ones that consider both your career and your personal life. 
SOURCE: PD:179 Balance personal and professional responsibilities
SOURCE: Cooks-Campbell, A. (2023, May 25). How to have a good work-life balance. Retrieved August 3,
2023, from https://www.betterup.com/blog/how-to-have-good-work-life-balance 

4. Ron has developed the habit of evaluating his goals on a monthly basis. During this time, he checks off goals that he has achieved and modifies others as necessary. Ron is very good at choosing goals that are realistic, attainable, and challenging. He can set up steps to achieve them. Unfortunately, Ron only achieves 25% of his goals. Ron could improve his rate of goal attainment by 
A. describing the benefits of setting goals.
B. telling others about his goal.
C. lowering his standards and setting unrealistic goals.
D. avoiding writing down goals.

4. B
Telling others about his goal. Ron will greatly improve his ability to achieve his goals if he involves supportive people in the process. People who will encourage Ron to achieve his goals will benefit him greatly. Describing the benefits of setting goals won't help Ron achieve them. Writing goals down greatly increases the chance of attainment. Lowering standards and setting unrealistic goals will not improve goal attainment. 
SOURCE: PD:018 Set personal goals
SOURCE: LAP-PD-918—Go for the Goal (Goal Setting)

13. Which of the following is true based on Maslow's theory of need satisfaction: 
A. Self-esteem needs must be satisfied before physical needs can become important.
B. All levels of needs are important and can be satisfied simultaneously.
C. Most people are able to satisfy only lower level needs.
D. Lower level needs must be satisfied before higher level needs can become important.

13. D
Lower level needs must be satisfied before higher level needs can become important. The five levels of needs, from lowest to highest levels, are physical, safety, social, self-esteem, and self-fulfillment. The theory states that the lower level needs must be relatively well-satisfied before higher level needs can become important to us. The theory does not support the statement that most people can satisfy only lower level needs. 
SOURCE: PD:013 Assess personal interests and skills needed for success in business
SOURCE: McLeod, S. (2023, July 26). Maslow's hierarchy of needs. Retrieved August 3, 2023, from
https://www.simplypsychology.org/maslow.html HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 4 

23. Which of the following industries has most impacted the development of the hospitality industry: 
A. Lumber
B. Retail
C. Transportation
D. Financial

23. C
Transportation. The development of rail, automobile, and air travel in the past 150 years has had the most impact on the development of the hospitality industry. Business and leisure travel has dramatically expanded because the time, comfort, and ease of travel has improved. This, in turn, creates a demand for facilities to house a wide variety of travelers. The retail, lumber, and financial industries would be impacted by growth or decline of the hospitality industry. The higher demand for hospitality services would naturally result in a higher demand for financial backing, building materials for facilities, and retail establishments for travelers. 
SOURCE: PD:105 Describe the development of the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: Westcott, M. (n.d.). Introduction to tourism and hospitality in BC: Chapter 2. Transportation.
Retrieved August 4, 2023, from https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/introtourismbc/chapter/chapter-2-transportation/ 

25. Mackenzie works in the travel and tourism industry. At which of these places is she most likely to work? 
A. An airline
B. A restaurant
C. A hotel
D. A state park

25. A
An airline. Travel and tourism employees are in charge of making sure customers have the best experience possible while traveling and planning their trips. A travel and tourism employee might be employed at an airline. If Mackenzie works in the travel and tourism industry, she would not be employed at a state park, a hotel, or a restaurant. 
SOURCE: PD:272 Explain career opportunities in hospitality and tourism
SOURCE: LAP-PD-272—Career Opportunities in Hospitality and Tourism

34. Which of the following is a basic right of all employees in the workplace: 
A. Paid time off for jury duty
B. Overtime pay
C. Email and internet privacy at work
D. Equal pay for men and women

34. D
Equal pay for men and women. The Equal Pay Act mandates equal pay for men and women performing similar job tasks. Email and internet privacy when working on an employer's computer system is not guaranteed, nor is paid time off for jury duty legally mandated. Overtime pay is a basic right to most employees but does not include some professionals, managers, and other employees. 
SOURCE: PD:021 Explain the rights of workers
SOURCE: Inc. (2023). Employee rights. Retrieved August 3, 2023,
from http://www.inc.com/encyclopedia/employee-rights.html 

49. Which of the following is a characteristic of the hospitality and tourism industry: 
A. Nonperishable
B. Intangible
C. Separable
D. Employee-centric

49. B
Intangible. The products offered by the hospitality and tourism industry are services and experiences—not concrete goods. Instead of receiving tangible items for their money, the buyer receives a trip, hotel stay, or experience that they hope will be pleasant and memorable. The services offered by the hospitality and tourism industry are perishable, meaning that they cannot be stored for later sale or use. Just as fresh produce cannot be kept forever, a cruise vacation or hotel stay must be consumed or used relatively soon after it is purchased. The hospitality and tourism industry is guest- and service-centric, rather than employee-centric. The hospitality and tourism industry is also inseparable, meaning that the services provided cannot be separated from their providers. 
SOURCE: PD:111 Describe the nature of the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: Kurtz, J. (2023). What is the hospitality industry? Retrieved August 4, 2023, from
https://www.webstaurantstore.com/blog/3726/what-is-the-hospitality-industry.html HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 12 

99. Mike is planning to work Tuesday and Thursday, go dirt-bike riding Sunday, and pay his bills Wednesday. Mike has just __________ his activities. 
A. performed
B. prioritized
C. scheduled
D. classified

99. C
Scheduled. Mike has made a time plan for the week, listing the days when planned activities are to be performed. Classifying is determining the frequency of performance. Prioritizing is listing the importance of each activity. Performing is carrying out the actual activity. 
SOURCE: PD:019 Use time-management skills
SOURCE: LAP-PD-019—About Time (Time Management)

3. What is a personal benefit an employee may experience from following the chain of command? 
A. Clearer lines of communication
B. Smoother workflow
C. Stronger relationships
D. Faster issue resolution

3. C
Stronger relationships. Adhering to a company's chain of command can help employees develop strong professional relationships. Working within a chain of command requires frequent communication with your boss, which leads to positive communication with your manager. This will allow you to develop a mutually beneficial relationship with them. Other personal benefits of following the chain of command include contributing to the company's efficiency and productivity, maintaining order in the company—allowing employees to do their work in peace—and demonstrating respect for the organization and its policies. Smoother workflow, clearer lines of communication, and faster issue resolution are each considered benefits of chains of command for companies, not employees. 
SOURCE: PD:252 Follow chain of command
SOURCE: LAP-PD-252—Don’t Cheat the Chain (Following Chain of Command)

7. During a meeting, Lilly's boss asked her if she could take the lead on another project. Although Lilly already has enough on her plate with two projects due in 10 days, she agreed to take on the project. By the end of the week, Lilly is stressed, overworked, and worried she won't meet any of her deadlines. Which time-management principle does Lilly need to learn? 
A. Avoid interruptions and distractions
B. Know when and how you work best
C. Don't commit to more work than you can handle
D. Make the most of your downtime with friends

7. C
Don't commit to more work than you can handle. Lilly needs to learn not to commit to more work than she can realistically do. Taking on more projects than she can handle will prevent her from giving her best effort to any of them. Although knowing when and how she works best, making the most of her downtime, and avoiding interruptions and distractions would help her, Lilly’s problem in this scenario isn't related to any of those principles. 
SOURCE: PD:019 Use time-management skills
SOURCE: LAP-PD-019—About Time (Time Management)

33. Tourism companies should safeguard the natural environment, strive to protect local biodiversity, and consider the long-term impact of their actions in the communities where they operate. Which of the following ethical principles do these actions most closely align with: 
A. Integrity
B. Viability
C. Rule of law
D. Transparency

33. B
Viability. Ethics play a vital role in tourism—they provide a framework for decision-making. Viability is defined as the long-term value of choices and actions. By safeguarding the natural environment, striving to protect local biodiversity, and considering the long-term impact of their actions, tourism companies are acting with viability in mind. Rule of law means complying with laws and regulations. Transparency is the quality of being just as one seems—trustworthy. Integrity means adhering to an established set of personal ethics and sound moral principles—acting with honesty in all situations. While rule of law, transparency, and integrity are important principles in hospitality and tourism, they are not being demonstrated in this scenario. 
SOURCE: PD:400 Discuss the role of ethics in hospitality and tourism
SOURCE: UNWTO. (2023). Global code of ethics for tourism. Retrieved November 21, 2023, from
https://www.unwto.org/global-code-of-ethics-for-tourism 

39. Hotels often rely on airlines to bring in guests, while restaurants rely on hotels to refer customers. This describes how segments of the hospitality and tourism industry 
A. increase the likelihood of repeat customers.
B. decrease the likelihood of repeat customers.
C. do not rely on one another for business.
D. are dependent on one another for business.

39. D
Are dependent on one another for business. Many segments of the hospitality and tourism industry (hotels, airlines, restaurants, etc.) are dependent on one another to some extent for business. Hotels relying on airlines to bring in guests and restaurants relying on hotels to refer customers are examples of interdependency in the hospitality and tourism industry. It is important for businesses to understand the interdependency among segments of the hospitality and tourism industry, as it will help them to make informed decisions and adapt to changes in the market. This does not describe how segments of the hospitality and tourism industry increase or decrease the likelihood of repeat customers. 
SOURCE: PD:399 Describe the interdependence of segments of the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: Novak, P. (2017, April 24). What are the 4 segments of the hospitality industry? Retrieved November
29, 2023, from https://www.hospitalitynet.org/opinion/4082318.html 2024 HS ICDC HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 10 

84. Nicolette works in the customer service department of a theme park. Which hospitality and tourism career area does she work in? 
A. Travel and tourism
B. Restaurants and food/beverage services
C. Recreation, amusements, and attractions
D. Lodging

84. C
Recreation, amusements, and attractions. Recreation, amusements, and attractions employees are responsible for ensuring customers have a great time while visiting parks, recreation areas, and other special attractions. Employees in this career pathway could work in theme parks, zoos, aquariums, museums, sports complexes, ski resorts, historical sites, or national and state parks. Travel and tourism employees work at travel agencies, travel websites, welcome centers, tourism publications, airlines, cruise lines, rental car agencies, and more. Lodging employees work at hotels, motels, bed and breakfasts, inns, resorts, and any other facility where guests stay. Employees in restaurants and food/beverage services keep restaurants running by purchasing, preparing, and serving food, among other duties. 
SOURCE: PD:272 Explain career opportunities in hospitality and tourism
SOURCE: LAP-PD-272—Career Opportunities in Hospitality and Tourism

91. Establishing decision criteria will provide __________ when making a decision. 
A. information
B. options
C. comfort
D. boundaries

91. D
Boundaries. Establishing decision criteria will provide boundaries when making a choice. Decision criteria will help you determine the choices that will lead to achieving a goal. Decision criteria do not provide options. Identifying alternatives is the step in which a variety of options are provided. Establishing decision criteria does not necessarily provide comfort or additional information. 
SOURCE: PD:017 Make decisions
SOURCE: LAP-PD-017—Weigh Your Options (Decision-Making)

2. Which of the following is an accurate statement about sleep: 
A. The amount of sleep people need varies from person to person.
B. Going to bed early will ensure that you get enough sleep.
C. The amount of sleep you get does not affect your health.
D. Everyone needs eight hours of sleep each night.

2. A
The amount of sleep people need varies from person to person. It was once thought that everyone needed eight hours of sleep every night. Studies now indicate that is not true. While the amount of sleep you get will affect your health, you have to determine what amount is right for you. Going to bed early may give you an adequate amount of rest, but it does not guarantee the amount of sleep you will get. 
SOURCE: PD:002 Maintain appropriate personal appearance
SOURCE: LAP-PD-002—Brand Me (Personal Appearance)

8. Which of the following is appropriate to include in a letter of application: 
A. The reasons for your partner's frequent job changes
B. Your list of references
C. Your work experiences that relate to the job opening
D. The ages of your children

8. C
Your work experiences that relate to the job opening. The letter of application is intended to provide information about the job applicant so the reader understands how the applicant is qualified for a specific job opening. It should stress the applicant's strengths so the reader knows the person's qualifications and feels positively about them. References are often provided once requested by the employer and are not necessary in a letter of application. Only relevant information should be presented in the letter of application. The ages of the applicant's children and reasons for a partner's frequent job changes are not considered relevant for most job openings. 
SOURCE: PD:030 Write a letter of application
SOURCE: Hansen, R.S. (n.d.). A job seeker's guide to successfully completing job applications. Retrieved
September 26, 2023, from https://www.livecareer.com/resources/jobs/search/job-applications 

27. The development of cars and airplanes fueled the growth of the hospitality and tourism industry because these forms of transportation provided the general public with increased 
A. mobility.
B. stability.
C. sensitivity.
D. creativity.

27. A
Mobility. Automobiles, airplanes, roads, and highway systems have made travel faster and easier and increased individuals' mobility. As a result, the demand for hospitality services has increased because more people are traveling for business and pleasure. The development and widespread use of cars and airplanes has not increased the general public's sensitivity, creativity, or stability. 
SOURCE: PD:105 Describe the development of the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: Extension Foundation. (2019, July 25). What are the differences between mobility, accessibility, and
connectivity in transportation planning? Retrieved September 27, 2023, from https://communityplanning.extension.org/what-are-the-differences-between-mobility-accessibility-and-connectivity-intransportation-planning/ 

45. Austin has discovered that he has the ability and aptitude for communications and public relations. Since he enjoys talking in front of people and is very at ease when doing so, he has decided that he wants to go into public speaking. Austin has demonstrated 
A. obtaining feedback from others.
B. establishing a value system.
C. the ethical principle of transparency.
D. choosing an appropriate career.

45. D
Choosing an appropriate career. Each of us has a unique combination of abilities and aptitudes for particular skills. Choosing a career is done by deciding which career matches one's abilities and aptitudes. Establishing a value system is developing your values, identifying which are most important to you, and creating a personal value system. Obtaining feedback from others refers to getting the thoughts and reactions from others about you and your behavior. Transparency is the quality of being just as one seems, which Austin has not necessarily demonstrated here. 
SOURCE: PD:013 Assess personal interests and skills needed for success in business
SOURCE: McKay, D.R. (2019, May 14). How to use self assessment tools to choose a career. Retrieved
September 26, 2023, from https://www.liveabout.com/self-assessment-tools-choose-a-career526172 HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 11 

74. To be a successful entrepreneur, you should develop and continually improve your 
A. financial and technical skills.
B. communication and creative writing skills.
C. technical skills and self-awareness.
D. creative writing and financial skills.

74. A
Financial and technical skills. To be successful, entrepreneurs must develop a variety of skills that they continue to improve throughout life. Necessary entrepreneurial skills include risk management skills, sales and marketing skills, financial skills, administrative skills, time management skills, technical skills, communication skills, leadership skills, decision-making skills, and problem-solving skills. Although creative writing skills and selfawareness may be helpful, they are not necessary to be a successful entrepreneur. 
SOURCE: PD:066 Explain career opportunities in entrepreneurship
SOURCE: LAP-PD-066—Own Your Own (Career Opportunities in Entrepreneurship)

78. Melanie recently graduated from college with a degree in hospitality management and has good organizational, communication, and management skills. Melanie enjoys traveling, sailing, and planning social events. Which of the following jobs in the hospitality and tourism industry best matches Melanie's skills and interests: 
A. Ship safety officer
B. Resort housekeeping manager
C. Cruise director
D. Hotel food and beverage manager

78. C
Cruise director. Cruise directors perform a variety of tasks. Primary responsibilities involve coordinating entertainment activities and special events for the cruise's passengers. Coordinating these activities requires communicating with and managing staff. Because Melanie enjoys traveling, water sports (sailing), and planning social events, a cruise-director position aligns with her skills and interests. Working as a food and beverage manager usually requires specialized training in food preparation and service. Housekeeping managers perform management tasks associated with the cleaning and upkeep of rooms. Because Melanie likes to travel and plan special events, she would probably not want to work as a resort housekeeping manager. A safety officer needs to have special knowledge about the security and safety issues that pertain to cruise ships. 
SOURCE: PD:272 Explain career opportunities in hospitality and tourism
SOURCE: Indeed. (2022, September 30). How to become a cruise director (with skills and duties). Retrieved
September 27, 2023, from https://uk.indeed.com/career-advice/finding-a-job/how-to-become-cruisedirector 

83. A significant cause of variability in a hotel's service is 
A. differences in staff members' abilities.
B. standardized check-in procedures.
C. perishability of unsold rooms.
D. customer satisfaction surveys.

83. A
Differences in staff members' abilities. Services by nature are highly variable and dependent on who provides them. Some staff members may be more skilled than others, which can cause guests to perceive their experiences differently. The perishability of unsold rooms is an internal financial challenge of a hotel that does not cause variability in its service. Standardized check-in procedures are a technique that hotels use to reduce variability in service. Customer satisfaction surveys are used to evaluate a hotel's service and do not cause variability. 
SOURCE: PD:111 Describe the nature of the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: Kotler, P., Bowen, J.T., Makens, J.C., & Baloglu, S. (2017). Marketing for hospitality and tourism (7th
ed.) [pp. 34-39]. Boston, MA: Pearson, Education, Inc. HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 20 

Marketing 2024 Exams

4. Daily tasks that affect your appearance, such as dental care, showering, and applying deodorant, are an important aspect of your 
A. diet and nutrition.
B. posture and confidence.
C. professional wardrobe.
D. personal hygiene routine.

4. D
Personal hygiene routine. Personal hygiene is the habits and practices of cleanliness and care that you perform regularly to take care of your body. Showering, applying deodorant, and brushing your teeth in the morning before you go to work are ways in which you maintain your personal hygiene, which affects your personal appearance. When you follow a routine to maintain your hygiene, you often feel better about yourself and your appearance, which can make you feel more confident at work. Your posture refers to the way you hold your body when sitting, standing, etc. Good diet and nutrition involves eating foods that are healthy for you. Your wardrobe is your clothing. 
SOURCE: PD:002 Maintain appropriate personal appearance
SOURCE: LAP-PD-002—Brand Me (Personal Appearance)
MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 2 

20. Marissa's new business venture failed because she did not want to work the long hours required to get the business up and running. Marissa lacked 
A. personal commitment.
B. financial resources.
C. problem-solving skills.
D. self-confidence.

20. A
Personal commitment. New business ventures require owners to work long and irregular hours to get their businesses up and running. This often interferes with their personal and family time. If a business owner is not willing to commit their time and energy to the venture, the venture is likely to fail. There is not enough information about Marissa's financial resources, her level of self-confidence, or her ability to effectively solve problems to determine if these factors played a role in the failure of her business. 
SOURCE: PD:066 Explain career opportunities in entrepreneurship
SOURCE: LAP-PD-066—Own Your Own (Career Opportunities in Entrepreneurship)

31. Which of the following typically addresses conflicts of interest, harassment, discrimination, and confidentiality: 
A. Annual report
B. Operating statement
C. Mission statement
D. Code of conduct

31. D
Code of conduct. A code of conduct is a set of rules and standards that govern the expected practices, decisions, procedures, and systems within an organization. Codes of conduct typically address topics such as conflicts of interest, harassment, discrimination, use of property, confidentiality, etc. An operating statement, also known as an income statement, summarizes a business's income and expenses over a period of time. An annual report is a document outlining the financial status of a business. A mission statement is a brief summary of what a business owner wants a business to be doing. 
SOURCE: PD:251 Follow rules of conduct
SOURCE: LAP-PD-251—Know the Code (Following Rules of Conduct)

74. What is the primary action needed to ensure employees understand their roles in meeting the business's overall goals? 
A. Motivational speeches
B. Peer evaluation
C. Ongoing communication
D. Brainstorming activities

74. C
Ongoing communication. Employees' goals should align with the business's organizational goals. To ensure that employees understand the importance of their work and their roles in achieving the business's goals, managers must communicate with the employees on an ongoing basis. Ongoing communication may include brainstorming ideas to improve productivity, motivating employees by providing positive feedback, and evaluating their performance on a regular basis. Performance reviews may or may not include evaluation from peers. 
SOURCE: PD:255 Ascertain employee's role in meeting organizational goals
SOURCE: Martic, K. (2023, January 23). The importance of communication in the workplace (& how to do it
right). Retrieved August 2, 2023, from https://haiilo.com/blog/communication-in-the-workplaceimportance/ MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 18 

97. Industry and professional associations develop ethical standards for marketing professionals because ethics are 
A. rarely followed.
B. frequently understood.
C. usually apparent.
D. sometimes unclear.

97. D
Sometimes unclear. Ethics refer to beliefs and values that guide a person's behavior. Because each person's idea about acceptable behavior can vary, many industries and professions develop standards, or written guidelines, that define what is deemed ethical behavior and what constitutes acceptable business practices. Ethical standards help clarify appropriate behavior so that professionals understand what is expected of them and what they need to do to follow the standards. Ethics are not always apparent or understood. However, they are often followed. 
SOURCE: PD:137 Explain the need for professional and ethical standards in marketing
SOURCE: Sarokin, D. (2020, July 13). What are ethical standards in the workplace? Retrieved August 2, 2023,
from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/ethical-standards-workplace-11576.html 

98. One of the most effective ways to balance personal and professional responsibilities is by 
A. avoiding personal responsibilities until your work is finished.
B. accepting the fact that you won't be able to spend time with your family.
C. setting realistic goals through prioritization.
D. procrastinating on work to fit in personal activities.

98. C
Setting realistic goals through prioritization. Prioritizing is one of the most important methods for balancing work and personal life. Prioritization involves ranking responsibilities in terms of urgency and importance, and taking care of the most important first. Procrastination is never an effective method for completing work. However, it would also be unwise to avoid personal responsibilities until your work is completely finished. A better method would be to set goals and to prioritize. You do not need to accept the fact that you won't be able to spend time with your family; with effective time management, anyone can successfully balance their work and home life. 
SOURCE: PD:179 Balance personal and professional responsibilities
SOURCE: Mental Health America. (2023). Work life balance. Retrieved August 2, 2023, from
https://www.mhanational.org/work-life-balance 

40. Aidan is deciding on what he wants to major in once he goes to college. This is an example of a(n) __________ decision. 
A. routine
B. limited
C. simple
D. extensive

40. D
Extensive. Extensive decisions demand a lot of careful consideration, such as what career you would like to begin to prepare for. Limited decisions require some time and energy to look at all alternatives. Routine decisions require hardly any thought. Selecting a major is usually not a simple, limited, or routine decision. 
SOURCE: PD:017 Make decisions
SOURCE: LAP-PD-017—Weigh Your Options (Decision-Making)

44. Which of the following is an example of fairness in marketing: 
A. A company is open to the public about its procedures and operations.
B. An organization makes an effort to give back to the community.
C. A company commits to offering competitive wages for its employees.
D. A business advertises without attempting to mislead customers.

44. C
A company commits to offering competitive wages for its employees. When companies establish fairness (the ability to make judgments and act without favoritism or self-interest) as a decision-making principle in their marketing tactics, they commit to fair prices, better and competitive wages, and sustainable development. A business advertising without attempting to mislead customers is an example of honesty in marketing. An organization making an effort to give back to the community is an example of responsibility in marketing. A company being open to the public about its procedure and operations is an example of transparency in marketing. 
SOURCE: PD:137 Explain the need for professional and ethical standards in marketing
SOURCE: MasterClass. (2022, April 14). Ethical marketing explained: 4 principles of ethical marketing.
Retrieved September 6, 2023, from https://www.masterclass.com/articles/ethical-marketing 

46. Which of the following are responsibilities of individuals who work in public relations: 
A. Channel management and marketing-information management
B. Answering customer questions and resolving complaints
C. Creating new products and determining pricing
D. Writing press releases and running press conferences

46. D
Writing press releases and running press conferences. People in public relations are in charge of establishing good relations between their business or organization and the public. This means that public relations professionals can write and send out press releases, schedule and run press conferences, communicate and develop relationships with the public and media, and manage crises that may threaten reputations. Creating new products and determining pricing are responsibilities of individuals who work in product/brand management. Channel management and marketing-information management are responsibilities of individuals in marketing management. Answering customer questions and resolving complaints are responsibilities of individuals in customer service. 
SOURCE: PD:024 Explain employment opportunities in marketing
SOURCE: LAP-PD-024—Career Opportunities in Marketing
2024 HS ICDC MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 11 

47. Which of the following statements best represents time management: 
A. It is how people use the 24 hours in their day.
B. It is how people control time.
C. It requires a lot of extra work.
D. It focuses only on short-term goals.

47. A
It is how people use the 24 hours in their day. Time management refers to how people use the 24 hours in their day to effectively accomplish goals. In many ways, however, the term “time management” is misleading. Time itself is not under our control, but our actions are. If we learn to act in a way that makes the most of our time, then we are using the resource wisely. Another misconception is that time management requires a lot of extra work. Sure, you might have to get used to a few new things at first, like setting goals and determining priorities, but in the end you’ll find that spending just a few minutes a day on time management can save you many hours and help you become much more efficient. Time management can help with both short-term and long-term goals. It can help you stay on top of short-term goals, such as a project or presentation. It is also a process that, when developed, can help you plan for the future and take major steps toward achieving your goals and becoming the person you want to be. 
SOURCE: PD:019 Use time-management skills
SOURCE: LAP-PD-019—About Time (Time Management)

85. Which of the following statements about the chain of command is true: 
A. Only large organizations follow a chain of command.
B. Lead employees are often the highest individuals on the chain.
C. Authority in the chain flows from the bottom to the top.
D. It helps employees understand how their organization operates.

85. D
It helps employees understand how their organization operates. A chain of command is the flow of authority within an organization. Chains of command help employees understand how their organization operates as well as where they fit within the organizational structure. Typically, lead employees are not the highest individuals on the chain of command. Individuals such as a corporate manager, general manager, or assistant manager are higher on the chain than the lead employees. Authority flows from top to bottom within a chain of command, not vice versa. Businesses of all shapes, sizes, and industries implement chains of command to keep their operations flowing smoothly and efficiently. 
SOURCE: PD:252 Follow chain of command
SOURCE: LAP-PD-252—Don’t Cheat the Chain (Following Chain of Command)

4. It is usually most effective for goals to be phrased in __________ terms. 
A. complex
B. simple
C. general
D. specific

4. D
Specific. Goals should be as specific as possible, not stated in general terms. A time limit should be set for achieving the goals. These guidelines apply to both simple and complex goals. 
SOURCE: PD:018 Set personal goals
SOURCE: LAP-PD-918--Go for the Goal (Goal Setting)

16. Jerry walks into his first job interview with his resume and job application. He is wearing jeans, a T-shirt, and a baseball cap. Jerry had the skills and background necessary for the job but did not get the job. Which of the following concepts should Jerry consider for his next interview: 
A. Additional paperwork such as references and cover letters are required at job interviews.
B. Appearance is critical in the workplace.
C. Researching a workplace before the interview is crucial.
D. Personal appearance does not always reflect a person's attitude.

16. B
Appearance is critical in the workplace. Employers often judge potential employees based on first impressions. You can expect an interviewer to examine your personal appearance carefully and to interpret it as an indicator of the way you might perform on the job. Researching a workplace and bringing appropriate paperwork to the interview are important but may not be significant if a negative first impression is given. Personal appearance does not always reflect a person's attitude, but one must assume that the appearance of your clothing will help determine whether the interview would be a waste of the employer's time. 
SOURCE: PD:002 Maintain appropriate personal appearance
SOURCE: LAP-PD-002--Brand Me (Personal Appearance)

24. Tonia was just hired as an assistant brand manager at Drake Goodwin. She is amazed at the fast-pace of the office. Everyone looks very busy, especially her supervisor. This morning when she arrived, there was a note from her supervisor on her desk explaining what she should do today. After reading it several times, she thinks she understands her assignment, but isn't positive. She can see her supervisor is busy on a phone call. What should she do? 
A. After her supervisor ends the call, ask her to clarify the instructions
B. Work on the task to the best of her ability
C. Work on a different task that she is comfortable doing
D. Ask a coworker to read the note and help her understand it

24. A
After her supervisor ends the call, ask her to clarify the instructions. It is always best to get clarification straight from the source of the information. Most supervisors will appreciate an employee who knows how to collect facts and then do a job well instead of an employee who guesses and then wastes time completing the wrong thing. Asking a coworker may lead to an incorrect guess as well. Proceeding without clarification may lead to time and effort wasted. Working on something else means that Tonia ignored her supervisor's wishes for the tasks to be done today. 
SOURCE: PD:020 Analyze employer expectations in the business environment
SOURCE: Atkins, I. (2023, July 31). Setting clear expectations for employees. Retrieved September 18, 2023,
from https://www.businessnewsdaily.com/9451-clear-employee-expectations.html 

80. What barrier to creativity is being described in the following situation: "We've been working around the clock for weeks to meet the deadline on our project. It's getting harder and harder to come up with new ideas." 
A. Need to be right the first time
B. Criticism
C. Stress
D. Limiting code of behavior

80. C
Stress. Worry and fatigue tense both physical and mental muscles. Stress blocks the flow of creative ideas. Limiting code of behavior is a pattern of behavior that limits creativity because people become convinced that a problem is unavoidable and don't look for solutions. People who need to be right the first time can't take the chance of being wrong. Creativity requires people to explore alternatives and to take risks. Creative people need to avoid limiting the number and quality of ideas by being critical. 
SOURCE: PD:012 Demonstrate appropriate creativity
SOURCE: LAP-PD-012--Imagine That (Demonstrating Creativity)
MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 19 

96. Which marketing career is usually in charge of writing press releases? 
A. Marketing operations
B. Customer service
C. Marketing research
D. Public relations

96. D
Public relations. People in public relations are in charge of creating a good image for their business or organization. Part of this includes writing and sending out press releases. Marketers in marketing research, marketing operations, and customer service do not generally write press releases. 
SOURCE: PD:024 Explain employment opportunities in marketing
SOURCE: LAP-PD-024--Career Opportunities in Marketing

