Entrepreneurship 2024 Exams

6. A primary advantage for marketers who use direct mail to promote products is that 
A. most marketers find that it is more effective than micro-marketing methods.
B. it is usually less expensive than personal selling methods.
C. it is more effective in creating brand awareness than television advertising.
D. marketers can deliver their messages to a broad audience.

6. B
It is usually less expensive than personal selling methods. Direct mail is defined as promotional messages that are sent directly to consumers' homes and businesses. Direct mail appears in many forms, including postal mail (e.g., catalogs, sales letters) and email. Personal selling is a form of promotion that determines client needs and wants and responds through planned, personalized communication that influences purchase decisions and enhances future business opportunities. Although developing direct-mail pieces can be expensive, personal selling is generally considered the most expensive promotional method. Micro-marketing is a general term that is sometimes used to describe target marketing. Direct mail (e.g., junk mail, spam) is not necessarily more effective in creating brand awareness than television advertising. Direct mail is used more often with targeted markets, rather than broad audiences. 
SOURCE: PR:089 Explain the nature of direct marketing channels
SOURCE: Verified Label, Print & Promotions, Inc. (2023). Direct mail is not dead! Top ten benefits of direct mail
campaigns. Retrieved August 11, 2023, from https://verifiedlabel.com/knowledgecenter/knowbenefits-direct-mail.aspx? 

8. Le'veon wants to create a marketing mix that includes both push and pull strategies. Which marketing mix should he choose? 
A. Mass media advertising and sales promotions
B. Referrals and sales promotions
C. Getting retailers to stock the product and creating a supply chain
D. Customer relationship management and trade shows

8. D
Customer relationship management and trade shows. Customer relationship management is a pull strategy, while trade shows are a push strategy. Push strategies involve promoting products to intermediaries, who then promote the products to customers. Pull strategies involve promoting products directly to the ultimate consumer or industrial user; intermediaries then purchase the products from the manufacturer to meet customer demand. Mass media advertising and sales promotions are both pull strategies. Getting retailers to stock the product and creating a supply chain are both push strategies. Referrals and sales promotions are both pull strategies. 
SOURCE: PR:249 Identify communications channels used in sales promotion
SOURCE: Carmicheal, K. (2021, August 9). Push vs. pull marketing: Top differences & how to use them.
Retrieved August 11, 2023, from https://blog.hubspot.com/marketing/push-vs-pull-marketing ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 3 

25. Which of the following is an important component of a business's press kit: 
A. Biographies of key company figures
B. Promotional messages
C. Customer testimonials
D. Interviews

25. A
Biographies of key company figures. A press kit is a package of information about a company, whether physical or digital, that is sent out to reporters in hopes of generating interest about that company. The press kit should be a “one-stop shop” of all information a reporter could need to write about the company. This includes biographies of key figures in the company, such as the CEO, COO, etc. Promotional messages, interviews, and customer testimonials are not necessarily important components of a press kit. 
SOURCE: PR:250 Explain communications channels used in public-relations activities
SOURCE: Forsey, C. (2022, May 4). What is a media kit—and how to make one [+ press kit examples].
Retrieved August 11, 2023, from https://blog.hubspot.com/marketing/media-kit-examples ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 7 

33. Ad-blocking software and spam filters help individuals avoid 
A. direct print mail.
B. unsolicited publications.
C. unwanted digital advertising.
D. telemarketing calls.

33. C
Unwanted digital advertising. Ad-blocking software and spam filters help individuals avoid unwanted advertising while they are online. They do not prevent individuals from receiving unsolicited publications, direct print mail, or telemarketing calls. Adding your phone number(s) to a Do-Not-Call registry can stop telemarketers from contacting you. 
SOURCE: PR:007 Explain types of advertising media
SOURCE: LAP-PR-007—Ad-quipping Your Business (Types of Advertising Media)

45. Which of the following is an interactive public relations activity: 
A. Search engine optimization
B. Social media
C. Newsletter
D. Podcast

45. B
Social media. Social media are interactive forms of electronic communications through which users build communities, network, share information, etc. A newsletter, a podcast, and search engine optimization are oneway public relations activities and are not interactive. 
SOURCE: PR:252 Identify types of public-relations activities
SOURCE: Planells, A. (2023). How can social media help public relations? Retrieved August 11, 2023, from
https://www.weareradioactive.com/blog/paid-social/how-can-social-media-help-public-relations 

96. What is an example of an external factor that affects promotion? 
A. Increase in a product's price
B. Government regulation of ads
C. Reorganization of the business
D. A change in distribution methods

96. B
Government regulation of ads. Government regulations are part of the external factors that affect promotion. Changes in the product's price or distribution methods, or a reorganization of the business, are examples of internal factors that affect promotion. 
SOURCE: PR:001 Explain the role of promotion as a marketing function
SOURCE: LAP-PR-901—Razzle Dazzle (Nature of Promotion)

7. Which of the following is an advantage of direct marketing: 
A. It lacks a personal touch.
B. It must conform to legal regulations.
C. It is cost effective.
D. It leads to consumer overload.

7. C
It is cost effective. Direct marketing refers to forms of advertising that seek a specific, measurable action from a targeted group of consumers, using direct mail, telemarketing, emails, etc., that are sent directly to a consumer’s home or business. Direct marketing is cost effective, as it allows companies to target their audience in a specific way and reach them directly while not having to pay a retailer a percentage of sales. Another advantage of direct marketing is that it allows companies to include a personal touch in their marketing, as they can control their interactions more effectively. A disadvantage of direct marketing is that it can lead to consumer overload. Another disadvantage is that it must conform to legal regulations, as regulations change often and businesses that don't adhere to changes can face stiff penalties and fines. 
SOURCE: PR:089 Explain the nature of direct marketing channels
SOURCE: Leonard, K. (2019, March 5). The advantages & disadvantages of direct marketing & telemarketing.
Retrieved January 10, 2024, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/advantages-disadvantagesdirect-marketing-telemarketing-54933.html 

8. Amy recently bought a new phone case and is very pleased with her purchase. In fact, she has talked about how much she likes the phone case to her friends, family, and co-workers. This is an example of __________ marketing. 
A. cause
B. grassroots
C. word-of-mouth
D. guerrilla

8. C
Word-of-mouth. Word-of-mouth marketing is the promotion and publicity for a business provided by customers who tell others of their satisfaction with the business. Because Amy talks about how much she likes the phone case to her friends, family, and co-workers, this is an example of word-of-mouth marketing. Guerrilla marketing refers to promotional techniques that are unconventional, low-cost, and aim to attract consumers’ attention. Grassroots marketing is the process of increasing interest in a product, brand, or idea with the use of a targeted and highly specific audience. Cause marketing involves a collaboration between a nonprofit organization and a for-profit business for a common benefit. 
SOURCE: PR:247 Describe word-of-mouth channels used to communicate with targeted audiences
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2022, August 23). Word-of-mouth marketing: Meaning and uses in business. Retrieved
January 9, 2024, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/w/word-of-mouth-marketing.asp 2024 HS ICDC ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 3 

9. Wes, a public relations (PR) professional for an electronics company, releases an official statement to the media about a new product the company is releasing. Wes is utilizing what PR tool? 
A. Press release
B. Blog
C. Newsletter
D. Social media marketing

9. A
Press release. A press release is a written official statement delivered to the media to provide information and make a public announcement. In this scenario, Wes is releasing a press release about his company's new product. Newsletters are messages that provide information of interest to particular groups; they are more informal than press releases. People who receive newsletters are people who have opted to receive them. A blog refers to a website where individuals or organizations share thoughts, ideas, experiences, or information on a regular basis. Social media marketing is the use of social media platforms (such as Facebook and Instagram) to connect with consumers and achieve marketing goals. 
SOURCE: PR:250 Explain communications channels used in public-relations activities
SOURCE: IPR.org.uk. (2023). PR tools and techniques. Retrieved January 10, 2024, from
https://www.ipr.org.uk/pr-tools-and-techniques.html 

20. Which of the following are two ways that consumers can use technology to block advertisers: 
A. Ad-blocking software and watching shows online
B. Do-Not-Call registries and DVRs
C. Spam email filters and DVRs
D. Do-Not-Call registries and ad-blocking software

20. D
Do-Not-Call registries and ad-blocking software. Do-Not-Call registries and ad-blocking software are both common ways in which people use technology to block advertisers. Spam email filters and premium digital radio or streaming services are also ways consumers can do so. Although DVRs allow you to fast-forward through commercials, they do not fall into this category because you still see the advertisement at a high speed while trying to get back to your show. While watching shows online can be a way to avoid advertisements, most streaming services or websites have advertisements during commercial breaks or on their websites. 
SOURCE: PR:007 Explain types of advertising media
SOURCE: LAP-PR-007—Ad-quipping Your Business (Types of Advertising Media)
2024 HS ICDC ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 6 

48. As Tim leaves his office building, he sees an advertisement for a local attorney on the side of a bus. On his drive home, he notices a billboard with an ad for a nearby restaurant, as well as a light-up sign promoting a basketball game. He also drove by two individuals holding signs promoting a deal for a cell phone store. Each of these is an example of what type of media? 
A. Broadcast
B. Out-of-home
C. Social
D. Direct

48. B
Out-of-home. Out-of-home media are promotional messages that are delivered to consumers when they are away from home. An advertisement on the side of a bus, a billboard, a light-up sign, and people holding signs are all examples of out-of-home media because Tim saw them when he was away from home. Social media are forms of electronic communications through which users build communities, network, share information, etc., such as Facebook, Twitter (now X), or Instagram. Direct mail is a type of advertising media that is different than out-of-home media. Direct mail is a promotional medium that comes to customers’ homes and businesses in the form of letters, catalogs, postcards, faxes, folders, and emails. Broadcast media is also a type of advertising media and is made up of television and radio. None of the examples Tim saw were on TV or the radio. 
SOURCE: PR:007 Explain types of advertising media
SOURCE: LAP-PR-007—Ad-quipping Your Business (Types of Advertising Media)

59. Food manufacturers often provide recipes on their websites to explain the many ways their products can be used to prepare meals. This is an example of how promotion is used by companies to 
A. inform.
B. remind.
C. socialize.
D. persuade.

59. A
Inform. Organizations have three major objectives when using promotion to influence customers: to inform, to persuade, and to remind. Many companies use promotion to communicate important information about their products. Promotions that inform customers may also educate them on how to use products to their fullest advantage. For example, food manufacturers often provide customers with useful information, such as recipes on their websites, to explain the many ways that their products can be used to prepare meals. They may also provide information about the natural or healthy qualities of their foods. Promotion can be used by companies to persuade and remind, but neither of these are demonstrated in this example. To socialize is not a use of promotion by companies. 
SOURCE: PR:001 Explain the role of promotion as a marketing function
SOURCE: LAP-PR-901—Razzle Dazzle (Nature of Promotion)

62. Anna, a public relations manager, is informed that her company experienced a cyberattack that has led to a massive data leak. What is the first thing Anna should do in this situation to manage the crisis? 
A. Take responsibility
B. React as soon as possible
C. Collect information
D. Answer media questions

62. C
Collect information. Crisis management is a public relations (PR) strategy that involves the ongoing management, planning, and coordination of resources in the event undesirable circumstances occur. In this situation, the first thing Anna should do is to collect information. When managing a crisis, it is important for PR professionals to first collect all of the information it can and fact-check it to properly evaluate the threat and determine the initial cause. Taking responsibility, reacting as soon as possible, and answering media questions are steps that PR professionals should take after they collect information. 
SOURCE: PR:252 Identify types of public-relations activities
SOURCE: Keyhole. (2023, October 2). 7 steps for effective PR crisis management in 2024. Retrieved January
10, 2024, from https://keyhole.co/blog/pr-crisis-management 

85. Rebates are different from coupons in that rebates typically 
A. offer a discount at the time of a purchase.
B. offer a discount after a purchase is made.
C. are easier to use than coupons.
D. provide customers with immediate savings.

85. B
Offer a discount after a purchase is made. A rebate is a return of part of the price a customer pays for a good or service, and it is usually offered by the product's manufacturer. Rebates offer discounts after a purchase is made, whereas coupons offer discounts at the time of a purchase. Coupons provide customers with immediate savings, while rebates provide delayed savings. Coupons are typically easier to use than rebates, as customers simply need to present the coupon at the checkout counter or type in a code online. Rebates often require customers to submit a form or proof of purchase. 
SOURCE: PR:249 Identify communications channels used in sales promotion
SOURCE: Fripp, G. (2023). Difference between coupons and rebates. Retrieved January 10, 2024, from
https://www.marketingstudyguide.com/difference-coupons-rebates 

5. Specialty advertising is being used by firms when they 
A. sell premiums to potential customers.
B. display the firm's name in lights.
C. hire specialists to do the firm's advertising.
D. give away useful products to customers.

5. D
Give away useful products to customers. Companies using specialty advertising typically place company and product information on useful items, such as calendars and key rings, and then distribute these items to current and potential customers. Specialists who prepare advertisements are advertising agencies. The firm's name in lights on a building is out-of-home advertising. Premiums are given, not sold, to customers. 
SOURCE: PR:007 Explain types of advertising media
SOURCE: LAP-PR-007—Ad-quipping Your Business (Types of Advertising Media)
ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 2 

6. What is a communications channel used in sales promotion? 
A. Discount coupons
B. Television commercials
C. Newspaper ads
D. Package labels

6. A
Discount coupons. Sales promotion involves promotional activities other than advertising, personal selling, and publicity that stimulate customer purchases. Couponing is a sales promotion activity. Discount coupons are printed certificates that entitle the holder to a reduced purchase price. Coupons are a communication channel used in sales promotion because they are a means of providing information to others. Package labels, newspaper ads, and television commercials are not communications channels used in sales promotion. 
SOURCE: PR:249 Identify communications channels used in sales promotion
SOURCE: Epstein, L. (2022, December 17). Advantages and disadvantages of using coupons for your
business. Retrieved October 3, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/articles/personalfinance/051815/pros-cons-using-coupons-your-business.asp 

31. Why are news releases considered one of the most effective public relations tools? 
A. News sources only report factual information.
B. People are willing to pay for quality news.
C. People consider news sources more trustworthy.
D. News sources have a broader reach than social media.

31. C
People consider news sources more trustworthy. Since most people consider information communicated by mainstream media sources to be trustworthy, news releases are a very effective public relations tool. Whether people pay for news or not does not impact its effectiveness. Social media often has a broader reach than news sources. News sources contain factual information as well as opinions and paid advertising. 
SOURCE: PR:250 Explain communications channels used in public-relations activities
SOURCE: IPR. (2023). PR tools and techniques. Retrieved October 3, 2023, from https://www.ipr.org.uk/prtools-and-techniques.html
ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 8 

39. Which of the following is the best example of an interactive public relations activity: 
A. Newsletter
B. Press release
C. Website
D. Press conference

39. D
Press conference. There are two basic types of public relations activities: interactive and one-way. Interactive public relations activities allow for communication between an organization and the public to flow both ways, whereas one-way activities involve one-way communication from an organization to the public. Examples of interactive public relations activities include press conferences, speaking engagements, sponsorships, blogs, chat rooms, and social media. Examples of one-way public relations activities typically include search engine optimization, newsletters, websites, podcasts, press releases, and direct mail. 
SOURCE: PR:252 Identify types of public-relations activities
SOURCE: Chen, J. (2021, March 26). What is a press conference? Definition and why they're held. Retrieved
October 3, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/p/press-conference.asp ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 10 

54. Which of the following forms of direct mail is most likely to save money for a business: 
A. Billboards
B. Sales packets
C. Color catalogs
D. Self-mailers

54. D
Self-mailers. Direct mail is a promotional medium that comes to consumers' homes and businesses. Selfmailers are forms of direct mail that do not require an envelope. Self-mailers are usually sealed or stapled and have a designated space for the mailing label, return address label, and postage. Businesses can save money by using self-mailers because they do not need to purchase envelopes. Color catalogs are expensive to produce. Sales packets require envelopes or wrappers and often weigh a lot, which tends to increase postage amounts. Billboards are not an example of direct mail. 
SOURCE: PR:089 Explain the nature of direct marketing channels
SOURCE: Zhang, A. (2023, January 9). Direct mail: What it is, how it works, in practice. Retrieved October 3,
2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/d/direct-mail.asp 

67. Tom, a musician, is sending copies of his latest album to several social media influencers. He hopes that at least a few of them will mention his album in their posts. Tom is most likely using __________ marketing to promote his work. 
A. word-of-mouth
B. business-to-business
C. mass
D. ambush

67. A
Word-of-mouth. Word-of-mouth marketing is the promotion and publicity for a business provided by customers who tell others of their satisfaction with a business or product. Tom hopes that social media influencers will tell others about his album and thereby increase sales. Ambush marketing is a promotional technique whereby a non-sponsoring business tries to associate with an event to gain recognition as a sponsor. Business-tobusiness (B2B) marketing involves creating, promoting, and selling goods and services to other businesses or organizations. Mass marketing involves designing products and directing marketing activities to appeal to the whole market. Mass marketing is also known as undifferentiated marketing. 
SOURCE: PR:247 Describe word-of-mouth channels used to communicate with targeted audiences
SOURCE: Meyers, J. (n.d.). What is word-of-mouth advertising? Retrieved October 3, 2023, from
https://yourbusiness.azcentral.com/wordofmouth-advertising-5692.html 

76. One of the purposes of promotion is to __________ customers about the existence of a company or a product. 
A. warn
B. caution
C. reassure
D. remind

76. D
Remind. Some companies need to remind customers that they and their products exist. Promotion might be used to reassure customers about a problem product, but customers would already be aware of its existence. A business would want the customer to be attracted to the product, not warned or cautioned about it. 
SOURCE: PR:001 Explain the role of promotion as a marketing function
SOURCE: LAP-PR-901—Razzle Dazzle (Nature of Promotion)

Hospitality 2024 Exams

9. Which of the following is an example of a value-added promotion offered by a hotel: 
A. Daily housekeeping
B. Hotel airport shuttle
C. Indoor swimming pool
D. Discounted rooms

9. B
Hotel airport shuttle. Value-added hotel promotions are typically complimentary “add-on” services or products that give customers an additional incentive to book a room. Many guests value an airport shuttle that provides convenience and reduces transportation costs. Daily housekeeping is a basic service that is typically included with any hotel room. An indoor swimming pool is a built-in hotel amenity. Discounting rooms is a promotional technique that does not provide anything additional to guests. 
SOURCE: PR:082 Explain promotional methods used by the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: Morello, R. (2018, April 20). Promotional strategies in hotels. Retrieved August 4, 2023, from
http://yourbusiness.azcentral.com/promotional-strategies-hotels-11582.html HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 3 

89. The main goal of promoting a hospitality and tourism product is to __________ the product. 
A. create demand for
B. develop the brand name of
C. determine the price of
D. identify distribution channels for

89. A
Create demand for. Promotion, which is one function of marketing, includes advertising, selling, publicity, and events, such as giveaways and trade shows. Promoting a hospitality and tourism product through these methods stimulates interest, helping create demand. Distribution channels are outlets through which a product is available to customers, such as wholesale tour operators or retail travel agents. Determining a price is an important marketing decision that should take place before promoting a product. Branding is the aspect of marketing that deals with developing a recognizable name or image for a product or company. 
SOURCE: PR:121 Describe the concept of promotion in the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: Kerkola, H., & Iarygina, E. (2019, January 10). The importance of advertising tourism services on the
internet. Retrieved August 31, 2023, from https://unlimited.hamk.fi/teknologia-ja-liikenne/advertisingtourism-services/ 

70. Delano Hotel targets online users who have already visited its website and delivers personalized ads to them. This is an example of which of the following promotional strategies: 
A. Influencing
B. Referral marketing
C. Loyalty program
D. Remarketing

70. D
Remarketing. Remarketing, also called retargeting, is a promotional strategy that targets online users who have already visited a website and delivers personalized ads based on their behavior. A loyalty program offers discounts or rewards to incentivize customers to shop at the business. Influencing or influencer marketing is a strategy that involves a business paying a third party to promote its products and services. Referral marketing uses word of mouth and customer recommendations to attract customers. 
SOURCE: PR:082 Explain promotional methods used by the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: Event Temple. (2022, February 16). Marketing for hospitality and tourism: A look at the tourist’s
customer journey. Retrieved November 20, 2023, from https://www.eventtemple.com/blog/marketingfor-hospitality-and-tourism-a-look-at-the-tourists-customer-journey 

79. While watching a football game, Tony saw television commercials for Apple and Samsung. Each ad was trying to persuade Tony to buy its newest cell phone model. This is an example of __________ promotion. 
A. institutional
B. secondary product
C. corporate
D. primary product

79. B
Secondary product. Both companies were using secondary product promotion to try to persuade Tony to buy their cell phones. Secondary, or selective, product promotion is used to stimulate demand for a specific brand of product. Primary product promotion aims to stimulate demand, or desire, for an entire class of goods or services. The emphasis is on the product and its uses, rather than on a particular brand. Institutional, or corporate, promotion does not attempt to sell a good or a service. Rather, it is used to create a certain image of the company in the customers’ eyes. 
SOURCE: PR:002 Explain the types of promotion (i.e., institutional, product)
SOURCE: LAP-PR-902—Know Your Options (Product and Institutional Promotion)

87. Bounty created a life-sized art installation of a giant melting popsicle in Los Angeles to advertise its paper towels. This is an example of 
A. guerilla marketing.
B. sponsorship.
C. publicity.
D. mass media.

87. A
Guerilla marketing. Guerrilla marketing includes any promotional techniques that are unconventional, low-cost, and focused on attracting attention. Examples include street art (like Bounty’s giant popsicle), product ambassadors, and images placed on everyday objects. Publicity is an identity-building tactic defined as any nonpersonal presentation of ideas, goods, or services that is not paid for by the company or individual that benefits from or is harmed by it. Mass media includes TV and radio commercials, print ads, and billboards. Sponsorship is a promotional activity that occurs when an organization provides money or resources to an event, person, or activity in exchange for affiliation. 
SOURCE: PR:003 Identify the elements of the promotional mix
SOURCE: LAP-PR-903—Spread the Word (Nature of the Promotional Mix)

13. As a salesperson for a business specializing in high-priced electronic computers, which promotional tool are you most likely to use to communicate with buyers? 
A. Personal selling
B. Sales promotion
C. Advertising
D. Publicity

13. A
Personal selling. Personal selling is planned, personalized communication intended to influence purchase decisions. It is often used with high-priced or complex items. Advertising can be used to attract people to the business but is not generally used by salespeople. Publicity is any nonpersonal presentation of ideas, goods, or services that is not paid for by the individual or business that receives it. Sales promotion is activities such as couponing, displays, contests, free samples, or rebates used to stimulate purchases. These are initiated by the business, not the salesperson. 
SOURCE: PR:001 Explain the role of promotion as a marketing function
SOURCE: LAP-PR-901—Razzle Dazzle (Nature of Promotion)

54. Which of the following is part of a firm's promotional mix: 
A. Pricing
B. Product planning
C. Advertising
D. Distributing

54. C
Advertising. Advertising is any paid form of nonpersonal presentation of ideas, images, goods, or services. The promotional mix is the combination of advertising, publicity, personal selling, and sales promotion that a business uses. Product planning, pricing, distribution, and promotion are all part of the marketing process. 
SOURCE: PR:003 Identify the elements of the promotional mix
SOURCE: LAP-PR-903—Spread the Word (Nature of the Promotional Mix)
HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 13 

55. A hotel that buys advertising space on a travel agency's website is using this form of promotion to 
A. obtain publicity.
B. obtain an agency rating.
C. recruit new employees.
D. attract potential guests.

55. D
Attract potential guests. Hotel advertising on websites is intended to catch the attention of people making travel plans and prompt them to make reservations at the hotel. Buying advertising is not a method of obtaining publicity or a rating from a travel agency. A website ad is not an appropriate channel for recruiting new employees. 
SOURCE: PR:082 Explain promotional methods used by the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: Altexsoft. (2019, December 23). Marketing for travel agencies: Understanding and surviving the
online travel industry. Retrieved September 27, 2023, from https://www.altexsoft.com/blog/travelagency-marketing/ 

Marketing 2024 Exams

3. The EFG Company verifies that its customers would like to receive promotional information digitally. This is an example of 
A. online cookies.
B. instant messaging.
C. unsolicited junk mail.
D. opt-in email.

3. D
Opt-in email. Opt-in email refers to the electronic promotional messages that are sent with a recipient's permission and allows the recipient to request removal from the subscriber list at any time. Opt-in email is a good way for a business to promote goods and services because it allows the business to send information to customers who request the information. This method is also a quick and inexpensive way to send promotional messages. Unsolicited junk mail refers to promotional messages that customers do not request. Cookies are text files that are put on a website visitor's computer hard drive and then later retrieved during subsequent visits to the site in order to track internet behavior. Instant messaging is the ability to send, receive, and respond to computer messages in real-time. 
SOURCE: PR:100 Describe the use of technology in the promotion function
SOURCE: Kajabi. (2023). What is opt-in email marketing: Definition, example, and template. Retrieved August
3, 2023, from https://kajabi.com/blog/what-is-opt-in-email-marketing-definition-example-and-template 

7. What best describes the goal of amplified word-of-mouth promotion? 
A. Encouraging customers to provide both positive and negative feedback
B. Improving the quality of goods and services the business offers
C. Providing information to activists to share with others
D. Building loyal relationships with the customers

7. C
Providing information to activists to share with others. Word-of-mouth promotion involves customers who tell others about their satisfaction with the business. Amplified word-of-mouth promotion involves the use of proactive efforts (campaigns) in which the business provides specific information to customers (activists) to pass along to their friends, family, and business contacts. On the other hand, organic word-of-mouth promotion occurs naturally. Because customers are satisfied with the business and its products, they tell others about this satisfaction in the course of normal conversation. For example, if a business shows a sincere interest in the customer by asking for feedback, taking actions to ensure customer loyalty, or improving products, the customer is likely to share those positive experiences with others. 
SOURCE: PR:247 Describe word-of-mouth channels used to communicate with targeted audiences
SOURCE: Meyers, J. (2023). What is word-of-mouth advertising? Retrieved August 3, 2023, from
https://yourbusiness.azcentral.com/wordofmouth-advertising-5692.html 

9. The Walt Disney Company promoted Pocahontas by giving away free vacations to Walt Disney World through sign-ups in Target stores. This is an example of what kind of promotional tool? 
A. Publicity
B. Sales promotion
C. Advertising
D. Personal selling

9. B
Sales promotion. Sales promotion activities include contests, couponing, displays, free samples, or rebates used to stimulate purchases. The Disney contest is, therefore, sales promotion. Publicity is any nonpersonal presentation of ideas, goods, or services that is not paid for by the company or individual which receives it. Advertising is any paid presentation of ideas, goods, or services. Personal selling involves planned personalized communication. 
SOURCE: PR:001 Explain the role of promotion as a marketing function
SOURCE: LAP-PR-901—Razzle Dazzle (Nature of Promotion)

27. The corrective action that the government might require an advertiser to take if the advertiser does not advise consumers about important facts about a product is called affirmative 
A. disclosure.
B. endorsement.
C. testimonial.
D. briefing.

27. A
Disclosure. When a business violates a government regulation, corrective action is the manner in which the government requires the business to put right or fix the wrongdoing. Affirmative disclosure is a type of corrective action in which the government orders the advertiser to include product information in future advertisements that it omitted in its previous advertisements. An endorsement is approval by a reputable external source. A testimonial is a statement by an identified product user proclaiming the benefits received from the use of the product. A briefing is an update or status report. 
SOURCE: PR:101 Describe the regulation of promotion
SOURCE: UpCounsel. (2023). Affirmative disclosure: Everything you need to know. Retrieved August 3, 2023,
from https://www.upcounsel.com/affirmative-disclosure 

37. Coca-Cola's "Always the real thing" campaign is an example of what type of promotion? 
A. Taste
B. Company
C. Service
D. Product

37. D
Product. Product promotion aims to persuade consumers to buy a good or service. Coca-Cola is promoting its soft drink. Coca-Cola is not promoting the specific company. Service and taste are not types of promotion. 
SOURCE: PR:002 Explain the types of promotion (i.e., institutional, product)
SOURCE: LAP-PR-902—Know Your Options (Product and Institutional Promotion)

45. During one scene of a popular TV show, an actor pours a box of brand-name cereal into a bowl and begins to eat it. What does this exemplify? 
A. Product placement
B. Product programming
C. Brand identification
D. Brand awareness

45. A
Product placement. Product placement is a sales-promotion strategy in which a product or brand is mentioned or used as a prop by types of media such as TV, film, or the theater. For example, fans of the TV series Friday Night Lights will often see the characters eat in an Applebee's restaurant. The intent of product placement is to generate and reinforce brand awareness with a target market. Brand identification is the process by which all of the branding elements work together to generate instant consumer recognition of a company or product. The use of props in TV shows and movies is not called product programming. 
SOURCE: PR:249 Identify communications channels used in sales promotion
SOURCE: Shopify. (2023, July 12). How does product placement work? Examples and benefits. Retrieved
August 3, 2023, from https://www.shopify.com/blog/product-placement 

62. Businesses seeking to target the teenage market often use 
A. newspapers.
B. specialty advertising.
C. direct mail.
D. broadcast media.

62. D
Broadcast media. Broadcast media, such as radio, internet, and TV, are especially effective at reaching teenage audiences. Print media, such as newspapers and magazines, are most effective in reaching adult audiences. Most direct mail, such as letters and catalogs, generally target adults. Specialty advertising, categorized as "other media," are giveaway items such as pens, matchbooks, calendars, or keyrings embossed with a company's name, logo, or promotional message. 
SOURCE: PR:007 Explain types of advertising media
SOURCE: LAP-PR-007—Ad-quipping Your Business (Types of Advertising Media)
MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 15 

80. An effective promotional mix is important because it helps a business 
A. obtain customers.
B. generate publicity.
C. place advertising.
D. influence vendors.

80. A
Obtain customers. The promotional mix plays a key role in obtaining and keeping customers. An appropriate blend of the promotional elements enables businesses to communicate effectively with consumers. Promoters are able to inform potential consumers about the existence of their products, services, or ideas and to persuade them to buy. An effective promotional mix does not help a business influence vendors. Advertising and publicity are elements of the promotional mix. 
SOURCE: PR:003 Identify the elements of the promotional mix
SOURCE: LAP-PR-903—Spread the Word (Nature of the Promotional Mix)

94. What type of information are businesses that sponsor sales promotion sweepstakes and contests required to make available to the customers who participate in those promotions? 
A. Samples of product
B. Odds of winning
C. Value of coupon
D. Amount of rebate

94. B
Odds of winning. To operate ethically, businesses that sponsor sweepstakes and contests are required to inform potential participants about the odds of winning. By providing this type of information, businesses are not misleading or deceiving customers about the possibility of winning. Customers have the right to know what their chances of winning are to decide if they want to participate. A rebate is a return of part of the price a customer pays for a good or service. A coupon is a certificate or part of an advertisement entitling the holder to a reduced purchase price. A sample is a small amount of a product. 
SOURCE: PR:099 Describe the use of business ethics in promotion
SOURCE: Kaiser, B. (2023, May 11). Running a sweepstakes or contest? Here's what you need to know.
Retrieved August 3, 2023, from https://www.legalzoom.com/articles/running-a-sweepstakes-orcontest-heres-what-you-need-to-know 

6. In their communications, a public-relations (PR) specialist emphasizes the company’s credibility and trustworthy reputation. This messaging is likely most important for the company’s 
A. investors.
B. competitors.
C. owners.
D. employees.

6. A
Investors. An investor is someone who puts money into a company and expects returns—which makes them an important audience for public-relations (PR) specialists. Investors typically only invest in companies they perceive as being credible with trustworthy reputations. While PR specialists might communicate with employees, owners, and company competitors, it’s probably less important that they stress the company’s credibility and reputation to these audiences than with investors. 
SOURCE: PR:253 Discuss internal and external audiences for public-relations activities
SOURCE: Worsley, N. (2023, May 8). How PR can help you attract investors for your business. Retrieved
September 9, 2023, from https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/how-pr-can-help-you-attract-investors-yourbusiness-nadia-worsley/ 

10. What is one of the most common forms of stealth marketing? 
A. Product placement
B. Social media advertising
C. Personal selling
D. Direct mail

10. A
Product placement. Product placement—one of the most common forms of stealth marketing—is a strategy that uses branded products as props in movies, TV shows, online videos, and video games to build brand awareness and positivity. Social media advertising, direct mail, and personal selling are not forms of stealth marketing. 
SOURCE: PR:099 Describe the use of business ethics in promotion
SOURCE: Indeed. (2023, February 3). Stealth marketing examples, definition, and benefits. Retrieved
September 22, 2023, from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/stealthmarketing-examples 2024 HS ICDC MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 3 

15. Cosmopolitan, Rolling Stone, and Sports Illustrated are examples of 
A. consumer magazines.
B. tabloid newspapers.
C. community newspapers.
D. business magazines.

15. A
Consumer magazines. Cosmopolitan, Rolling Stone, and Sports Illustrated are examples of consumer magazines. Consumer magazines are generally read by individuals for personal enjoyment during their leisure time. Business magazines appeal primarily to members of the business community. Tabloid newspapers are traditionally smaller than broadsheet size papers (the size most of us associate with newspapers). National Enquirer and the New York Post are examples of tabloid newspapers. Community newspapers are suburban or rural papers delivered to residents in a geographic area. Cosmopolitan, Rolling Stone, and Sports Illustrated are not considered business magazines, tabloid newspapers, or community newspapers. 
SOURCE: PR:007 Explain types of advertising media
SOURCE: LAP-PR-007—Ad-quipping Your Business (Types of Advertising Media)

19. Abdoulaye wants to promote his new storefront. He recruits some of his friends to go around the local community and spread the word about his new business. This is an example of 
A. paradigm innovation
B. exploratory research.
C. lending investments.
D. grassroots marketing.

19. D
Grassroots marketing. Grassroots marketing is a ground-up approach to marketing that aims to target smaller, specific groups in nontraditional channels. In this case, Abdoulaye is targeting the local community, and—rather than creating a traditional, formal advertisement or commercial—he is enlisting friends to help promote his business. Exploratory research is marketing research that collects information to help the business define its issue, situation, or concern and decide how to proceed with its research. Abdoulaye is simply promoting his business, not seeking to solve an issue or answer a question. Paradigm innovation is a type of innovation that is a significant change in the way a product is viewed by users and society at large. Abdoulaye's promotion technique is unconventional but not paradigm-shifting. Lending investments are investments in which lenders allow borrowers to use their money for a specified fee or rate. 
SOURCE: PR:247 Describe word-of-mouth channels used to communicate with targeted audiences
SOURCE: Myers, C. (2023). Definition of grassroots marketing. Retrieved September 15, 2023, from
https://smallbusiness.chron.com/definition-grassroots-marketing-23210.html 

23. Institutional promotion is sometimes criticized because it is 
A. expensive and difficult to measure.
B. expensive yet easily measurable.
C. inexpensive yet difficult to measure.
D. inexpensive and easily measurable.

23. A
Expensive and difficult to measure. Institutional, or corporate, promotion does not attempt to sell a good or a service. Rather, it is used to create a certain image of the company in the customers’ eyes. Institutional promotion is sometimes criticized because it may be costly. It is also criticized because its effectiveness is difficult to measure. It is not considered inexpensive, and it is not easily measurable. 
SOURCE: PR:002 Explain the types of promotion (i.e., institutional, product)
SOURCE: LAP-PR-902—Know Your Options (Product and Institutional Promotion)

42. Which of the following is a one-way public relations activity: 
A. Social media
B. Media tour
C. Press release
D. Press conference

42. C
Press release. A press release is written information provided to the media to obtain publicity. This is an example of a one-way public relations activity, as there is no interaction involved. Interactive public relations activities include social media, press conferences, media tours, chat rooms, and special events. 
SOURCE: PR:252 Identify types of public-relations activities
SOURCE: Downey, L. (2023, August 21). Press release: What it is, how it works, pros and cons. Retrieved
September 9, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/p/pressrelease.asp 2024 HS ICDC MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 10 

53. Marketing a product through phone calls or emails would be considered __________ marketing. 
A. indirect
B. direct
C. permission-based
D. relationship

53. B
Direct. Direct marketing is a form of marketing where marketers work to get specific, measurable action from a targeted group of consumers, often by phone or email. Indirect marketing is marketing where a business is not explicitly trying to market a product to a consumer, which would not be the case via phone or email. Permissionbased marketing is any marketing strategy that has the consent of the target audience, which is not necessarily the case with direct marketing. Relationship marketing is a strategy in which businesses spend time with current and prospective clients outside the office setting to enhance the partnership. 
SOURCE: PR:089 Explain the nature of direct marketing channels
SOURCE: Pollick, M. (2023, September 3). What is direct marketing? Retrieved September 15, 2023, from
https://www.smartcapitalmind.com/what-is-direct-marketing.htm?expand_article=1 

56. Which of the following is most likely to incorporate digital technology in promotion: 
A. Printed media
B. Billboards
C. Social media
D. Direct mail

56. C
Social media. Technology has greatly changed the promotional landscape. For example, digital technology such as social media—electronic communications through which users build communities, network, share information, etc.—puts marketers in direct contact with audiences across different platforms. Printed media, direct mail, and billboards are examples of traditional marketing, which doesn’t typically rely on digital technology. 
SOURCE: PR:100 Describe the use of technology in the promotion function
SOURCE: Miller, E. (2019, June 20). How technology is changing the promotional landscape. Retrieved
September 22, 2023, from https://innovationmanagement.se/2019/06/20/how-technology-ischanging-the-promotional-landscape/ 

59. Consistent use of design across advertising media helps 
A. increase return on investment.
B. promote brand identity.
C. improve company morale.
D. recruit new employees.

59. B
Promote brand identity. Consistent use of design across advertising media helps promote brand identity. By being consistent with branding elements, companies can build trust with their customers and promote their brand. Consistent design across media doesn’t necessarily help recruit new employees, increase return on investment (ROI), or improve company morale. 
SOURCE: PR:251 Explain the importance of coordinating elements in advertisements
SOURCE: Schonrock, J. (2022, November 21). Brand consistency is a must. Here’s what you need to know.
Retrieved September 9, 2023, from https://learn.g2.com/brand-consistency 

70. Which of the following is one of the primary purposes of public relations (PR): 
A. Identify investment opportunities
B. Keep financial records
C. Improve an organization’s reputation
D. Promote new products

70. C
Improve an organization’s reputation. The goal of public relations is to establish and maintain positive relationships between an organization and the public. This includes seeking to improve a business's or organization's reputation in the eyes of their customers or clients. Identifying investment opportunities would be the purpose of financial professionals, not a public relations department. The marketing department is responsible for promoting new products, and the accounting department keeps financial records. 
SOURCE: PR:250 Explain communications channels used in public-relations activities
SOURCE: IPR.org.uk. (2020). PR tools and techniques. Retrieved September 15, 2023, from
https://www.ipr.org.uk/pr-tools-and-techniques.html 

73. When Ben’s boss asks him to review an advertisement and pay particular attention to the text set in large type at the top of the ad, he’s really being asked to review the 
A. illustration.
B. white space.
C. copy.
D. headline.

73. D
Headline. A headline is text set in large type and usually positioned at the top of an advertisement. When Ben’s boss asks him to review the text in large type at the top of the ad, he’s being asked to review the ad’s headline. Copy is the text of an advertisement that provides readers with information; the sales message. White space is blank space in an advertisement that is unoccupied by text or illustrations. An illustration is a photograph, drawing, painting, or graphic such as a chart, table, or graph. 
SOURCE: PR:014 Explain the components of advertisements
SOURCE: Indeed. (2022, June 24). 25 tips for creating ad headlines. Retrieved September 9, 2023, from
https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/ad-headline 

77. Coupons, rebates, and free samples are all examples of 
A. acceptance sampling.
B. sales promotions.
C. social media.
D. onboarding.

77. B
Sales promotions. Sales promotions are promotional activities or techniques other than advertising that stimulate customer purchases. Coupons, rebates, and free samples are not considered advertisements, but they incentivize purchases. Acceptance sampling is inspecting a random sample of products to determine whether to accept or reject the entire batch and is unrelated to marketing or sales promotions. Coupons, rebates, and free samples are not examples of social media or electronic communications. Onboarding is the orientation and tasks required when a new employee joins the company. 
SOURCE: PR:249 Identify communications channels used in sales promotion
SOURCE: KnowThis.com. (2023). What are the different types of sales promotion? Retrieved September 15,
2023, from https://www.knowthis.com/sales-promotion/what-are-the-different-types-of-salespromotion/ 2024 HS ICDC MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 18 

84. Agencies that govern commerce, such as The Federal Trade Commission (FTC), have the power to regulate promotion by enforcing __________ laws. 
A. truth-in-advertising
B. food and drug
C. banking
D. insurance

84. A
Truth-in-advertising. In the United States, the FTC can regulate promotion by enforcing most truth-in-advertising laws, such as requiring ads to be truthful and not misleading. Food and drug laws are enforced by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. The insurance industry is largely governed at the state level. The banking industry is regulated by the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. Not all of these agencies operate at the federal level, and none of them relate directly to promotion. 
SOURCE: PR:101 Describe the regulation of promotion
SOURCE: Federal Trade Commission. (2023). Truth in advertising. Retrieved September 15, 2023, from
https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/topics/truth-advertising 

33. What is the primary goal of corporate promotion? 
A. To sell a product
B. To publicize a service
C. To explain a specific feature
D. To create a certain image

33. D
To create a certain image. The primary goal of corporate promotion is to create a certain image of the company in the eyes of the consumer. This is accomplished by informing consumers about the company, its ideas, and its philosophy. Unlike product promotion, institutional or corporate promotion does not attempt to sell a good or service. The goal of corporate promotion is not to explain a specific feature. 
SOURCE: PR:002 Explain the types of promotion (i.e., institutional, product)
SOURCE: LAP-PR-902--Know Your Options (Product and Institutional Promotion)

44. A disadvantage to a business of using traditional direct-mail advertising is that 
A. the business has little control over who receives the message.
B. a direct-mail package can only be used once.
C. it cannot be used for soliciting repeat customers.
D. it can be expensive to produce and distribute.

44. D
It can be expensive to produce and distribute. Direct-mail is a promotional medium that comes to consumers' homes and businesses. Traditional direct-mail advertising involves the production and distribution of promotional materials that are delivered by a postal or delivery service to consumers' mailboxes. The high cost per piece means a business will need to calculate carefully the response rate needed to break even. It is ideal for getting repeat customers and can be timed for the mailings to arrive at crucial periods, such as the beginning of a sales promotion. In many situations, packages can be designed for reuse or to be reused with very little updating. 
SOURCE: PR:089 Explain the nature of direct marketing channels
SOURCE: Wolski, C. (n.d.). The disadvantages of direct mail. Retrieved September 18, 2023, from
https://smallbusiness.chron.com/disadvantages-direct-mail-1436.html MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 11 

46. Public relations efforts aimed at a company's own employees are often attempting to 
A. maintain employee goodwill.
B. educate the public about the company.
C. take advantage of employees.
D. sell products and services.

46. A
Maintain employee goodwill. Public relations efforts that are aimed at employees are often attempts to enhance employee morale and maintain employee goodwill toward the business. Educating the public about the company is the purpose of other types of public relations, such as those that are aimed at consumers. Taking advantage of employees is not usually a purpose of public relations. Selling products and services is an indirect goal of public relations aimed at the public, but it is not the ultimate purpose. 
SOURCE: PR:253 Discuss internal and external audiences for public-relations activities
SOURCE: Advameg, Inc. (2023). Public relations. Retrieved September 19, 2023, from
https://www.referenceforbusiness.com/small/Op-Qu/Public-Relations.html 

48. Which of the following is an external factor that affects the role of promotion in marketing: 
A. The product to be promoted
B. Government regulations
C. The price of the product
D. Distribution of the product

48. B
Government regulations. Government regulations are an external factor affecting promotion by putting restrictions on its use. For example, government regulations prohibit cigarettes from being promoted on TV or radio. The product that is to be promoted, the channels of distribution, and the price of the product are all internal factors within the control of the business. 
SOURCE: PR:001 Explain the role of promotion as a marketing function
SOURCE: LAP-PR-901--Razzle Dazzle (Nature of Promotion)
MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 12 

64. The Sandlot Company promotes its products to intermediaries who then promote the products to customers. The Sandlot Company is using a(n) __________ promotional strategy. 
A. push
B. pull
C. increasing
D. decreasing

64. A
Push. In addition to determining which promotional mix elements to emphasize when promoting their products, manufacturers must also decide to whom they want to promote their products. Producers who utilize push promotional strategies promote their products to intermediaries who then promote the products to customers. Rather than promoting their products to intermediaries, producers who adopt pull promotional strategies promote their products directly to the ultimate consumer or industrial user to generate customer interest in the products. Intermediaries then purchase the products from manufacturers to meet customer demand. Increasing and decreasing promotional strategies are fictitious terms. 
SOURCE: PR:003 Identify the elements of the promotional mix
SOURCE: LAP-PR-903--Spread the Word (Nature of the Promotional Mix)

65. What is an advantage in using the internet to promote products? 
A. Reduces businesses' need to use traditional publicity efforts
B. Increases businesses' annual sales volume by 10%
C. Enables tracking of users' viewing and purchasing habits
D. Creates a loyal customer base for businesses.

65. C
Enables tracking of users' viewing and purchasing habits. Promotion is a term that refers to the various types of communications that marketers use to inform, persuade, or remind customers of their products. Technological advancements (e.g., internet) have made it possible for a business to track its customers' (visitors') behavior in relation to their website hits, inquiries, and purchases. The ability to track this online information often helps the business to determine its customers' needs and preferences, and to determine the best way to meet these needs and preferences. Because other factors influence a business's success, using the internet to promote products does not always increase annual sales volume or create a loyal customer base. Using the internet as one method of promotion does not necessarily mean that a business should reduce its traditional publicity efforts. 
SOURCE: PR:100 Describe the use of technology in the promotion function
SOURCE: Linton, I. (2019, March 6). Six benefits of internet marketing. Retrieved September 18, 2023,
from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/six-benefits-internet-marketing-31382.html 

66. What is an ethical issue that affects the promotional efforts of many businesses? 
A. Children's advertising
B. Brand positioning
C. Integrated marketing
D. Personal selling

66. A
Children's advertising. Children are often the target of advertising because they have significant buying power and also influence the buying decisions of many adults. Advertising to children frequently becomes an ethical issue for businesses because messages that are suitable for adults may not be suitable for children. Businesses must be cautious not to take advantage of children by giving them information or making claims that they will not understand. Businesses have an ethical obligation to be fair and truthful when advertising to children. Brand positioning involves creating a certain image or impression of a brand as compared to those of competitors' brands. Integrated marketing is not an ethical issue. Personal selling is the form of promotion that determines client needs and wants and responds through planned, personalized communication that influences purchase decisions and enhances future business opportunities. 
SOURCE: PR:099 Describe the use of business ethics in promotion
SOURCE: Brenner, M. (2017, November 27). The ethics of marketing to children and teens. Retrieved
September 18, 2023, from https://marketinginsidergroup.com/content-marketing/ethics-marketingchildren-teens 

67. What is a regulatory factor that affects promotion on an international level? 
A. Culture of specific countries
B. Cost of media placement
C. Types of products being advertised
D. Price of comparable products

67. C
Types of products being advertised. Regulations regarding promotion differ throughout the world. When businesses want to promote their products in other countries, they need to be aware of different regulations. One regulatory factor often involves the types of products being advertised. For example, charities may not advertise on TV in the United Kingdom. In France, diet products may not be advertised on TV. The cost of media placement and the price of comparable products are not regulatory factors that affect promotion. Culture is not a regulatory factor; however, culture has an impact on the regulations that affect promotion on an international level. 
SOURCE: PR:101 Describe the regulation of promotion
SOURCE: Studious Guy. (2023). Factors that affect marketing and advertising. Retrieved September 18, 2023,
from https://studiousguy.com/factors-affect-marketing-advertising MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 16 

71. What is an example of an amplified word-of-mouth strategy? 
A. A customer shares their opinion of a new product with a friend.
B. A company asks customers to share product reviews on a website.
C. Fans share the release date for a new product on Facebook.
D. Customers post comments about a company on Instagram.

71. B
A company asks customers to share product reviews on a website. Amplified word-of-mouth strategy involves a business asking others to help spread the word about its products, such as requesting customers to share product reviews on a website. Customers sharing the release date for a new product on Facebook, posting comments about a company on Instagram, and sharing their opinions of a new product with a friend are examples of organic word-of-mouth because they were created by consumers, not the company. 
SOURCE: PR:247 Describe word-of-mouth channels used to communicate with targeted audiences
SOURCE: Hayes, A. (2022, August 23). Word-of-mouth marketing: Meaning and uses in business. Retrieved
September 19, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/w/word-of-mouth-marketing.asp 

79. Ollie is designing a magazine ad, and he wants to draw attention to one main feature. To do so, Ollie should 
A. use white space.
B. keep his audience in mind.
C. change fonts often.
D. avoid clashing colors.

79. A
Use white space. White space is blank space in a print advertisement that is unoccupied by text or illustrations. White space helps put focus on a specific aspect of an advertisement. Ollie could use white space to draw attention to one main feature in his ad. Changing fonts often is not necessarily a good design practice. Keeping his audience in mind and avoiding clashing colors are good design practices for Ollie to follow, but they are not necessarily related to drawing attention to a specific feature of an ad. 
SOURCE: PR:251 Explain the importance of coordinating elements in advertisements
SOURCE: Stribely, M. (2023). 10 rules of composition all designers live by. Retrieved September 19, 2023,
from https://www.canva.com/learn/visual-design-composition 

83. Your store is purchasing a new display case. Which type of newspaper advertisement would be most appropriate to use to sell the old display case? 
A. Special advertising
B. Classified advertising
C. Classified display advertising
D. Display advertising

83. B
Classified advertising. This type would be best to sell the display case because the ad can be put into an appropriate category, such as used business equipment. The ad would also be at a low cost, and no illustration is needed. Display advertising is more expensive because it uses one or more elements such as illustrations, headlines, variations in type and white space. Classified display advertising includes illustrations/special typeset in addition to the ad. Special advertising usually consists of notices such as public and legal notices. 
SOURCE: PR:007 Explain types of advertising media
SOURCE: LAP-PR-007--Ad-quipping Your Business (Types of Advertising Media)

