Entrepreneurship 2024 Exams

28. After a good is produced, the price of that good should be set at a point at which 
A. a large profit is made.
B. competition has sold the good.
C. the price is twice the cost.
D. the good will sell.

28. D
The good will sell. Prices should be set so that they satisfy both buyers and sellers. Competition is a factor in determining prices, but each company must determine its own selling price. Certainly a profit must be achieved; however, this may not always be a large one. Doubling the cost may not create an appropriate price based on the type of business, clientele, etc. 
SOURCE: PI:001 Explain the nature and scope of the pricing function
SOURCE: LAP-PI-001—The Price Is Right (Nature of Pricing)

80. Hotel chains carefully analyze economic conditions and the competition before raising prices because the product the chains provide has 
A. limited supply.
B. elastic demand.
C. unlimited supply.
D. inelastic demand.

80. B
Elastic demand. Elastic demand is a form of demand in which changes in price correspond to changes in demand. Even a small change in price affects demand for the product. As a result, hotel chains carefully analyze economic conditions and the competition to make sure a price increase will not reduce demand. If customers feel the new price is too high, they will not buy because hotel rooms are products that customers do not need in order to survive. There is not an unlimited supply of hotels which means the supply is limited; however, they are plentiful so customers usually will be able to find one in the right price range. Inelastic demand is a form of demand in which changes in price do not affect demand. 
SOURCE: PI:002 Explain factors affecting pricing decisions
SOURCE: LAP-PI-902—Make Cents (Factors Affecting Selling Price)
ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 19 

10. Which of the following factors affecting selling price is determined by what people want and can afford: 
A. Competition
B. Costs
C. Supply and demand
D. Economic conditions

10. C
Supply and demand. Factors affecting selling price vary from business to business. Common factors include supply and demand, economic conditions, competition, and costs. Supply and demand are determined by what people want and can afford. For example, when consumer demand for a product increases, producers make more of it, the supply increases, and the selling price goes down. Economic conditions, competition, and costs are all factors affecting selling price, but they are not necessarily determined by what people want and can afford. 
SOURCE: PI:002 Explain factors affecting pricing decisions
SOURCE: LAP-PI-902—Make Cents (Factors Affecting Selling Price)

25. Which of the following are two characteristics of effective pricing: 
A. Rigid and realistic
B. Realistic and competitive
C. Competitive and popular
D. Popular and rigid

25. B
Realistic and competitive. No single factor makes an effective price. Marketers must keep a number of characteristics in mind when setting effective prices. These include being realistic, flexible, and competitive. Customers associate price with quality—if the price is high, the quality is high; if the price is low, the quality is low. So, businesses must set prices that are realistic to customers—neither too high nor too low. Because pricing is a tug-of-war and a constant quest for balance, businesses must be willing to adjust their prices as necessary, being flexible—not rigid. Additionally, when a similar product is offered by competitors, a business needs to be aware of the prices others are charging. If not, the business will probably lose customers because its prices are not competitive. Effective prices are not always popular. 
SOURCE: PI:001 Explain the nature and scope of the pricing function
SOURCE: LAP-PI-001—The Price Is Right (Nature of Pricing)

18. When economic conditions are good, individuals and businesses increase their spending, which __________ demand and __________ prices. 
A. decreases; decreases
B. decreases; increases
C. increases; decreases
D. increases; increases

18. D
Increases; increases. Our economy is always changing. When we experience good economic conditions, jobs are plentiful, and most people are able to buy what they want or need. With increased spending, demand increases. When demand is higher than producers can meet, prices go up. As economic growth slows down, demand begins to fall because consumers cut back on spending. Businesses reduce their prices in order to survive until demand increases. 
SOURCE: PI:002 Explain factors affecting pricing decisions
SOURCE: Chen, J. (2020, November 27). Economic conditions. Retrieved October 2, 2023, from
https://www.investopedia.com/terms/e/economic-conditions.asp 

75. Which of the following is an example of price in the financial services industry: 
A. Credit to an account
B. Balance on a loan
C. Interest on a loan
D. Debit to an account

75. C
Interest on a loan. Prices are attached to anything of value for which consumers are willing to make a money exchange. When a customer obtains a loan from a financial institution, the customer repays the loan with interest. The interest is the price the customer pays to the bank for the purchase of the loan. A debit to an account occurs when a customer writes a check or withdraws funds from an account and does not necessarily involve a fee to the bank. The balance on a loan is the amount remaining to be repaid. A credit to an account involves depositing funds to an account. 
SOURCE: PI:001 Explain the nature and scope of the pricing function
SOURCE: LAP-PI-001—The Price Is Right (Nature of Pricing)

83. Before a good can be sold, the buyers and sellers first have to agree on a(n) 
A. promotion decision.
B. market share.
C. exchange price.
D. pricing objective.

83. C
Exchange price. An exchange price is the amount of money that the buyer is willing to pay and the seller is willing to accept for a good or service. A market share is an organization's portion of the total industry sales in a specific market. Promotion decisions refer to the selection of the various types of communications that marketers use to inform, persuade, or remind customers of their products. Pricing objectives are goals a company hopes to accomplish through its pricing strategies. 
SOURCE: PI:001 Explain the nature and scope of the pricing function
SOURCE: LAP-PI-001—The Price Is Right (Nature of Pricing)

Hospitality 2024 Exams

79. In the travel and tourism industry, customers' perceptions of value and worth are often associated with 
A. price.
B. promotion.
C. place.
D. profit.

79. A
Price. Price is the marketing element requiring marketers to determine the amount of money they will ask in exchange for their products. In the travel and tourism industry, price is closely associated with customers' perceptions of value and worth. If customers think the travel product has value and worth, they are often willing to pay for it. Also, value and worth differ from customer to customer, so what is value to one customer might not be value to another. For example, some people prefer economy hotels because saving money is a value to them. To other people, receiving many services is a value that they are willing to pay for. Profit is the monetary reward a business owner receives for taking the risk involved in investing in a business. Place is the marketing element focusing on considerations in getting a selected product in the right place at the right time. Promotion is a marketing function needed to communicate information about goods, services, images, and ideas to achieve a desired outcome. 
SOURCE: PI:029 Explain the concept of price in the hospitality and tourism industry
SOURCE: Wharton, D. (2022, November 13). 12 tourism pricing problems and how to avoid them. Retrieved
August 31, 2023, from https://www.travellifemedia.com/12-tourism-pricing-problems-how-to-avoid HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 19 

62. Many customers associate __________ with price. 
A. quality
B. flexibility
C. exchange
D. transportation

62. A
Quality. Many customers associate quality with price. Customers associate price with quality—if the price is high, the quality is high; if the price is low, the quality is low. Businesses must set prices that are realistic to customers—neither too high nor too low. Although flexibility is a characteristic of effective pricing, it is not necessarily something many customers associate with price. Most customers do not associate transportation or exchange with price. 
SOURCE: PI:001 Explain the nature and scope of the pricing function
SOURCE: LAP-PI-001—The Price Is Right (Nature of Pricing)

26. Which of the following things is likely to occur if both buyers and sellers don't think that they are getting the best possible value: 
A. A business will make more money.
B. A business will sell more of the product.
C. Customers will spend their money elsewhere.
D. Customers will continue to buy the product.

26. C
Customers will spend their money elsewhere. Pricing is like a tug-of-war between buyers and sellers. Both are trying to get the most value from the good or service. The trick to pricing comes in balancing and satisfying both groups. Both buyers and sellers need to perceive that they are getting the best possible value they can. If this doesn't happen, customers may spend their money elsewhere, either on a similar product (if one is available) or on an entirely different product. A business may make less money if both buyers and sellers don't think that they are getting the best possible value. Customers are not likely to continue to buy the product, and the business is not likely to sell more of the product. 
SOURCE: PI:001 Explain the nature and scope of the pricing function
SOURCE: LAP-PI-001—The Price Is Right (Nature of Pricing)

Marketing 2024 Exams

44. Companies A, B, and C meet secretly and agree to coordinate their prices. This is an example of 
A. price fixing.
B. black-market pricing.
C. price discrimination.
D. predatory pricing.

44. A
Price fixing. Price fixing is an illegal business agreement in which businesses agree on prices of their goods or services, resulting in little choice for the customer. Because the businesses are coordinating their prices, this is an example of price fixing. Predatory pricing is the illegal practice of setting prices unrealistically low to eliminate competition. Price discrimination is the practice in which a business charges different customers different prices for the same product. This is not an example of predatory pricing or price discrimination. Black-market pricing is a fictitious term. 
SOURCE: PI:015 Describe the role of business ethics in pricing
SOURCE: LAP-PI-015—Pricing With Purpose (Ethics in Pricing)
MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 11 

84. The prices of services in a new business are about the same as those of similar businesses in the area. This is an example of pricing that is 
A. flexible.
B. competitive.
C. strategic.
D. realistic.

84. B
Competitive. A business must be aware of the prices offered by other businesses and make sure that its prices are competitive, especially for products that are similar. Realistic pricing is often associated with the quality of the product. Flexible pricing allows the business to raise or lower its prices in response to economic changes. Strategic is not a type of pricing. 
SOURCE: PI:001 Explain the nature and scope of the pricing function
SOURCE: LAP-PI-001—The Price Is Right (Nature of Pricing)
MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 20 

96. An example of how technology is simplifying the price-marking function is by enabling manufacturers to 
A. exchange data electronically.
B. preprint UPC data on packages.
C. ship goods directly to businesses.
D. receive new orders automatically.

96. B
Preprint UPC data on packages. The Universal Product Code (UPC) label is encoded with product information, such as price, brand, size, etc., to be read by an electronic scanner. Technology allows manufacturers to preprint this data on packages before shipping them to businesses. The preprinted data simplifies the pricemarking function because the business does not need to mark a price on each product. The UPC data contain the necessary pricing information. Exchanging data electronically, shipping goods directly to businesses, and receiving orders automatically are not ways that technology simplifies the price-marking function. 
SOURCE: PI:016 Explain the use of technology in the pricing function
SOURCE: Shopify. (2022, November 18). Master UPC codes: Essential guide for 2023. Retrieved August 2,
2023, from https://www.shopify.com/blog/what-is-a-universal-product-code MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 23 

24. When setting his company’s prices, Beau thinks about the quality of materials used in production. Beau is considering how price affects what element of the marketing mix? 
A. Promotion
B. Pricing objectives
C. Product
D. Place

24. C
Product. Pricing plays a key role in the marketing mix (product, price, place, and promotion). The elements of the marketing mix are interdependent because a change in one will affect the others. Pricing affects product decisions in terms of materials used in production. In this example, Beau is not considering production, place, or pricing objectives. 
SOURCE: PI:001 Explain the nature and scope of the pricing function
SOURCE: LAP-PI-001—The Price Is Right (Nature of Pricing)

39. Which of the following is an advantage of using an automated pricing system: 
A. It can lead to an over-dependency on automated systems.
B. It will completely eliminate the need for staff members.
C. It takes time for employees to become accustomed to it.
D. It can simplify and speed up quoting to customers.

39. D
It can simplify and speed up quoting to customers. An automated pricing system uses software or algorithms to determine the price of goods or services based on market conditions, customer behaviors, and costs. Automated pricing systems have many advantages, including that they simplify and speed up quoting to customers. Employees taking some time to become accustomed to them and an over-dependency on automated systems are disadvantages of automated pricing systems. Automated pricing systems will not completely eliminate the need for staff members. 
SOURCE: PI:016 Explain the use of technology in the pricing function
SOURCE: Wells, T. (2023, February 23). When does an automated pricing system become a risk? Retrieved
September 29, 2023, from https://taylorwells.com.au/automated-pricing-system 

62. Which of the following is a potential disadvantage of price controls: 
A. They eliminate supply shortages but can lead to illegal markets.
B. They prevent producers from price gouging.
C. They keep companies from developing monopolies.
D. They often lead to an imbalance of supply and demand.

62. D
They often lead to an imbalance of supply and demand. Price controls refer to the legal minimum or maximum prices set for specified goods. A potential disadvantage of price controls is that they can often lead to an imbalance of supply and demand. When prices are too low, there may not be enough supply, which thereby increases demand. This can lead to shortages (rather than eliminate them) and illegal markets. Two advantages of price controls are that they prevent producers from price gouging and they keep companies from developing monopolies. 
SOURCE: PI:017 Explain legal considerations for pricing
SOURCE: Kenton, W. (2022, July 2). Price controls explained: Types, examples, pros & cons. Retrieved
September 29, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/p/price-controls.asp#toc-advantagesand-disadvantages-of-price-controls 

83. Four furniture stores agreeing to charge the same amount for a new couch is an example of 
A. price skimming.
B. price fixing.
C. predatory pricing.
D. prestige pricing.

83. B
Price fixing. Price fixing is an illegal agreement in which businesses agree on the prices of their goods or services, resulting in fewer choices for the customer. Four furniture stores agreeing to charge the same amount for a new couch is an example of price fixing. Predatory pricing is the illegal practice of setting prices unrealistically low to eliminate competition. Price skimming involves setting prices higher than those of the competition. Prestige pricing is deliberately putting an artificially high price on a good or service to suggest high quality or status. 
SOURCE: PI:015 Describe the role of business ethics in pricing
SOURCE: LAP-PI-015—Pricing With Purpose (Ethics in Pricing)

35. Why are Universal Product Codes (UPCs) often preprinted on products before the manufacturer ships the products to the business? 
A. To simplify the price-marking function
B. To reduce the possibility of theft
C. To improve the transportation system
D. To increase the product turnover rate

35. A
To simplify the price-marking function. The Universal Product Code (UPC) label is encoded with product information such as price, brand, size, etc., to be read by an electronic scanner. Technology allows manufacturers to preprint this data on packages before shipping them to businesses. The preprinted data simplify the price-marking function because the business does not need to mark a price on each product. The UPC data contain the necessary pricing information. Preprinting UPCs on products does not increase the product turnover rate, reduce the possibility of theft, or improve the transportation system. 
SOURCE: PI:016 Explain the use of technology in the pricing function
SOURCE: GSI. (2023). Guide to UPC codes. Retrieved September 18, 2023, from https://www.gs1us.org/upcsbarcodes-prefixes/guide-to-upcs
MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 9 

50. Why is it necessary for a business to price its products very carefully? 
A. To track competitors' activities
B. To get a fair share of the market
C. To attract employees to the business
D. To create goodwill in the community

50. B
To get a fair share of the market. Gaining market share is often an important pricing goal. Businesses may lower prices to attract new customers and increase their market share. This could create goodwill in the community, but that is not the purpose of the tactic. Price levels are not used to attract employees. Competitors' activities would be tracked before prices were set. 
SOURCE: PI:002 Explain factors affecting pricing decisions
SOURCE: Kramer, L. (2023, April 8). What strategies do companies employ to increase market
share? Retrieved September 18, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/031815/what-strategies-do-companies-employincrease-market-share.asp 

81. A business might be involved in the illegal activity of deceptive pricing if it 
A. changes prices according to current demand.
B. offers special prices on a discontinued item.
C. misleads customers about the true value of a product.
D. sells products at a limited number of predetermined price points.

81. C
Misleads customers about the true value of a product. Deceptive pricing is an illegal pricing tactic because it misleads customers about the true value of a product. An example of deceptive pricing is setting a high price on a product and then advertising a big discount which actually reduces the price to a realistic, or normal, level. Customers buy the item because they think they are saving money when, in fact, they are paying what the item is actually worth. Price lining involves selling products at a limited number of predetermined price points. Variable pricing involves changing prices according to current demand. Promotional pricing involves offering special prices on certain products such as discontinued items. These pricing activities are not illegal. 
SOURCE: PI:017 Explain legal considerations for pricing
SOURCE: McCormick, M. (2017, May 30). Are your prices ethical? Retrieved September 18, 2023, from
https://blog.blackcurve.com/are-your-prices-ethical 

95. To outdo competitors, a company may choose air freight to distribute its products. Which of the four P's of marketing is affecting the product's price? 
A. Packaging
B. Place
C. Promotion
D. Product

95. B
Place. The place element of marketing involves shipping, handling, and storing of items and determining when and where they will be available. Getting products to destinations faster inevitably means paying extra money. This extra cost to the company will become part of the product's price. Product decisions involve deciding what goods, services, or ideas to produce or to sell to satisfy customers' needs and wants. Packaging is not one of the four P's of marketing but the enclosing of products in appropriate wrappings or containers. Promotion is a marketing function which communicates information about goods, services, images, or ideas to customers or clients. 
SOURCE: PI:001 Explain the nature and scope of the pricing function
SOURCE: LAP-PI-001--The Price Is Right (Nature of Pricing)

