2. What is the main reason for treating saving money in a bank account like a fixed expense in a personal budget? 
A. So that you save money regularly
B. So that money can earn more interest
C. To pay expenses and bills on time
D. To pay for financial emergencies

2. A
So that you save money regularly. To reach savings goals, it's important to treat saving money like a fixed expense so that it occurs on a regular basis. A savings fund can be used to meet financial emergencies and to earn interest, but neither are the reason for treating savings like a fixed expense. Paying for expenses and bills on time is not a reason for treating savings like a fixed expense. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 8
SOURCE: Loudenback, T. (2019, March 19). I made a mental shift to start saving more money and I'd
recommend it to just about anyone. Retrieved August 30, 2023, from https://www.businessinsider.com/personal-finance/money-saving-tip-treat-as-expense-2019-3 

7. Which of the following is a disadvantage of investing in a savings account: 
A. The rate of return doesn't keep up with inflation.
B. A minimum balance is required to keep the account active.
C. You must pay a penalty for withdrawing your money early.
D. There is a high potential for loss.

7. A
The rate of return doesn't keep up with inflation. Savings accounts earn low rates of return—usually not even enough to keep up with inflation. This causes the investor's money to lose buying power. Savings accounts do not require a minimum balance or incur penalties for withdrawing money early. Savings accounts are very lowrisk investments, especially since they are insured by the FDIC. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 8
SOURCE: LAP-FI-077—Invest for Success (Types of Investments)

11. Molly and Tim have just had their first baby, Tommy. On top of their other financial considerations, such as saving for their retirement, they will now have to start saving and investing for Tommy's 
A. life insurance.
B. college education.
C. retirement.
D. health insurance.

11. B
College education. Most new parents begin saving for their children's college education after they are born, but some begin earlier. Tommy will likely have to pay for his own retirement and life insurance. As soon as he is born, Tommy will likely be put on his parents' health insurance until he can afford his own. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 8
SOURCE: Williams, G. (2022, September 21). Ways to save for your child's college education. Retrieved
August 30, 2023, from https://money.usnews.com/money/personal-finance/articles/ways-to-savefor-your-childs-college-education 

12. Rita is looking for an easy-access bank account that she can use to earn interest on the money she receives from her part-time job. She hopes to use the account to put money aside for her future college expenses. Which account type best fits Rita's needs? 
A. Money market account
B. Checking account
C. Certificate of deposit (CD)
D. Savings account

12. D
Savings account. A savings account allows you to earn interest on money you've put aside for the future. Savings accounts are generally easy to access, meaning you can deposit and withdraw money at your convenience. A savings account would best fit Rita's needs as described in this example. A certificate of deposit allows you to invest money at a set interest rate for a set amount of time. A CD would likely not work for Rita since she would not be able to access the money while it is being invested. A money market account is similar to a savings account; however, they require the user to maintain a higher balance to avoid a monthly service fee. Rita's part-time job earnings probably would not meet the requirements for a money market account balance. A checking account is an easy-access account for daily transactions. Most checking accounts do not offer interest earnings and so would not be appropriate for Rita in this example. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 8
SOURCE: Wells Fargo. (1999-2023). Types of bank accounts. Retrieved August 30, 2023, from
https://www.wellsfargo.com/financial-education/basic-finances/manage-money/options/bankaccount-types/ 

25. To save some money to buy a used car for college, Tim placed $1,650 in a savings account and did not add to or withdraw money from the account for a year. At the end of the 12-month period, Tim had $1,722.08 in his savings account. What was the rate of return on the savings account? 
A. 4.6%
B. 4.4%
C. 3.7%
D. 3.5%

25. B
4.4%. To determine the rate of return (percentage of interest earned), first subtract the deposit amount from the amount of money in the savings account at the end of the year, which indicates the amount of interest earned in dollars ($1,722.08 - $1,650 = $72.08). Then, divide the amount of interest earned in dollars by the original deposit amount to obtain the rate of return as a percentage ($72.08 ÷ $1,650 = .0436, which rounds to .044 [4.4%]). 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 8
SOURCE: Burnette, M. (2023, June 16). How to calculate interest in a savings account. Retrieved August 30,
2023, from https://www.nerdwallet.com/article/banking/how-to-calculate-interest-in-a-savingsaccount#:~:text=You%20can%20calculate%20the%20simple,earn%2C%20not%20 money%20you%20pay. 

30. Abbie just graduated from college, moved to a new apartment, started a new job, and has no dependents. She makes enough money to cover her living expenses, but she also needs to save enough to 
A. cover medical expenses.
B. invest in the stock market.
C. support beneficiaries.
D. retire within a few years.

30. A
Cover medical expenses. As a young professional, Abbie's financial needs include her living expenses. Abbie also needs to save enough to cover medical expenses, which can be unexpected and costly. At Abbie's stage of life, she does not need to retire within a few years or support beneficiaries. While investing is a good way to grow one's money, there are many other investment options besides the stock market. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 8
SOURCE: Fontinelle, A. (2022, October 8). How to set financial goals for your future. Retrieved August 30,
2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/articles/personal-finance/100516/setting-financial-goals/ 

38. Which of the following institutions benefits individuals and groups by channeling funds from savers to borrowers: 
A. Nonprofit organizations
B. Banks
C. Income-tax preparers
D. Property holders

38. B
Banks. Banks and other financial institutions function as a conduit between those who wish to save money (and earn interest) and those who need to borrow it (and are willing and able to pay interest). Property holders are the owners of property, such as buildings or land. While some nonprofit organizations deal with saving and borrowing, that is not the definition of nonprofit, which means the organization's revenue goes to support the organization's mission. Income-tax preparers calculate taxes for clients. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 8
SOURCE: Pettinger, T. (2023). Purpose of banks. Retrieved August 30, 2023, from
https://www.economicshelp.org/blog/glossary/banks/ 

42. Kelly saved her money for two years to buy a car she wanted. Soon after, Kelly started saving for an expensive stereo. Kelly's desire for more illustrates the concept that people's wants are 
A. noneconomic.
B. competing.
C. varied.
D. unlimited.

42. D
Unlimited. Wants are considered unlimited because when one want is satisfied, there is at least one other waiting to take its place. Competing wants exist when people want more than one thing at a time and often must choose what they want more. Wants vary because, just as people are different, so are the things they want. Noneconomic wants are wants that can be satisfied without spending money. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 8
SOURCE: LAP-EC-902—Get the Goods on Goods and Services (Economic Goods and Services)

46. Calculate the percentage of increase in savings-account funds for the week if ABC Community Bank started the week with $1,256,778 and ended the week with $1,482,998. 
A. 16%
B. 20%
C. 18%
D. 22%

46. C
18%. Deposit-taking financial institutions offer savings accounts for their customers. To determine the percentage of increase in savings-account deposits for the week, subtract the beginning amount from the ending amount to obtain the difference or dollar-amount increase ($1,482,998 - $1,256,778 = $226,220). The bank's customers deposited $226,220 into their savings accounts during the week. Then, divide the increased amount by the beginning amount of savings to get the percentage of increase in savings-account funds ($226,220 / $1,256,778 = .17999 or .18 or 18%). 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 8
SOURCE: Burnette, M. (2023, June 16). How to calculate interest in a savings account. Retrieved August 30,
2023, from https://www.nerdwallet.com/article/banking/how-to-calculate-interest-in-a-savingsaccount 

65. Which of the following is a disadvantage of a checking account: 
A. Online transaction options
B. Account balance requirement
C. Overdraft protection
D. Direct payroll deposit

65. B
Account balance requirement. Financial institutions often require customers to maintain a certain amount of money in their bank accounts. The account holder may be charged fees if the minimal account balance requirements are not met. Direct payroll deposit, overdraft protection, and online transaction options are benefits or services that many types of checking account products offer that customers may need to pay fees to obtain. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 8
SOURCE: Query Genie. (n.d.). Advantages and disadvantages of savings and checking accounts. Retrieved
August 29, 2023, from http://querygenie.com/advantages-and-disadvantages-of-savings-andchecking-accounts/ 

71. Amira is trying to choose a financial institution. She likes to do her banking in person, and she wants to make sure she selects an institution that's customer friendly. She wants good interest rates and low fees, and she'd also prefer to invest with a not-for-profit institution. Amira should invest her money in a(n) 
A. Internet bank.
B. credit union.
C. investment bank.
D. commercial bank.

71. B
Credit union. Amira would likely be happy banking with a credit union. Credit unions are not-for-profit financial institutions that are owned by their members. Because of this, they have the customers' best interests at heart. They also usually have better interest rates and lower fees than some other types of financial institutions. If Amira enjoys doing her banking in person, an Internet bank would likely be a bad choice for her. Internet banks do all of their transactions online. Amira also wouldn't be happy with a commercial bank. Although commercial banks offer a wide array of services, they do not always offer good interest rates. Investment banks don't accept deposits, so they wouldn't be a good choice for Amira. Instead of dealing with the general public, investment banks typically work with businesses. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 8
SOURCE: Horton, M. (2023, March 30). Different types of financial institutions. Retrieved August 30, 2023,
from https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/061615/what-are-major-categories-financialinstitutions-and-what-are-their-primary-roles.asp#axzz2Kb4hzk7e PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 17 

72. Which of the following financial institutions offers checking and savings accounts and provides loans to individuals and businesses: 
A. Brokerage houses
B. Investment banks
C. Insurance companies
D. Commercial banks

72. D
Commercial banks. Commercial banks are full-service banks offering a variety of banking services, including checking and savings accounts, secured and unsecured loans, installment credit, and bank credit cards. Investment banks, on the other hand, are firms that specialize in helping corporations and governments issue securities. Investment banks also aid in complicated financial matters such as mergers and acquisitions. A brokerage house is a firm that offers various investing services, such as securities trading, research analysis, and advice. It may also offer checking accounts. An insurance company is a firm that provides insurance and assumes the risk covered in the policy. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 8
SOURCE: Horton, M. (2023, March 30). Different types of financial institutions. Retrieved August 30, 2023,
from https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/061615/what-are-major-categories-financialinstitutions-and-what-are-their-primary-roles.asp 

77. Amelia places $250 in a savings account that pays 6.25% interest compounded annually. Calculate the value of her savings account in two years. 
A. $274.86
B. $290.60
C. $282.23
D. $297.77

77. C
$282.23. Interest is the amount of money the investment issuer pays an investor for using the investor's money. Depending on the type of investment (e.g., savings account), interest is compounded at certain intervals (e.g., daily, quarterly, annually), which means that interest is earned upon the previous interest amount earned. In the example, the interest is compounded annually. To determine the value of Amelia's savings account after two years, first calculate the interest earned after the first year. Do this by multiplying the savings account deposit amount by the interest percentage rate, then add the interest amount earned to the savings account deposit amount ($250 X .0625 or 6.25% = $15.63; $250 + 15.63 = $265.63). After one year, the money is worth $265.63. Now, the interest begins to compound, and you must determine the value of the money in the savings account at the end of the second year. Do this by multiplying the savings account balance (amount) at the end of the first year by the interest percentage rate ($265.63 X .0625 or 6.25% = $16.60). Finally, add together the savings account balance (amount) at the end of the first year to the interest amount earned during the second year ($265.63 + $16.60 = $282.23). 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 8
SOURCE: Billingsley, R., Gitman, L.J., & Joehnk, M.D. (2020). PFIN (7th ed.) [pp. 103-104]. Boston, MA:
Cengage Learning, Inc. 

78. Which of the following statements about deposit-taking financial institutions is true: 
A. A deposit-taking institution's primary liabilities are checking accounts, savings accounts, money market
accounts, and certificates of deposit. B. Two types of commercial banks are mutual savings banks and savings and loan associations (S&Ls).
C. When a saver deposits funds, s/he receives a claim on the individual or firm to whom the depository
institution lends these funds. D. The Small Business Administration and the Federal Housing Administration are examples of deposit-taking

78. A
A deposit-taking institution's primary liabilities are checking accounts, savings accounts, money market accounts, and certificates of deposit. Deposit-taking institutions such as commercial banks are one type of financial institution. Deposit-taking institutions serve as financial intermediaries. Savers deposit their funds in depositary institutions, and then these deposit-taking institutions lend the funds to individuals and firms who need to borrow money. Checking accounts, savings accounts, money market accounts, and certificates of deposit are liabilities for deposit-taking institutions. Essentially, the funds deposited in these accounts are loans made to the institution by individuals, firms, and the government. When a saver deposits funds in a deposittaking institution, they receive a claim on their bank account, not the individual or firm who borrows those funds from the bank. The Small Business Administration and the Federal Housing Administration are examples of government and semigovernment financial institutions. Mutual savings banks and savings and loan associations are types of thrifts, not commercial banks. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 8
SOURCE: Kenton, W. (2023, June 2). Depository: Definition, meaning, types, and examples. Retrieved
August 30, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/d/depository.asp 

79. Viola wants to go on a vacation sometime in the next year. How should she generate the money she needs for the trip? 
A. Put the expenses for the trip on a credit card
B. Put her money in a savings account
C. Take some money from her emergency fund
D. Invest her money in the stock market

79. B
Put her money in a savings account. For short-term financial goals, such as Viola's vacation, using a savings account is a better option than investing in the stock market. While Viola won't earn as much in interest as she would in returns, investments fluctuate frequently, are riskier, and take time to become profitable. Viola might lose more money than she makes before her trip. If possible, Viola should not take money from her emergency fund for a vacation because if she does, she will not have the money she needs if an emergency occurs. She also should not put the expenses for the trip on a credit card unless she already has the money to pay off the credit card saved; otherwise, she will get into financial trouble. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 8
SOURCE: Williams, G. (2023, May 10). 7 ways to save for a vacation and tips for planning. Retrieved August
30, 2023, from https://money.usnews.com/money/personal-finance/family-finance/articles/7-waysto-save-for-a-vacation PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 19 

1. What is one of the main purposes of establishing financial regulations? 
A. To push for change in banking laws.
B. To maximize profits for the financial system.
C. To protect institutions from customers.
D. To maintain the integrity of the financial system.

1. D
To maintain the integrity of the financial system. Financial regulations are a form of supervision of financial markets and institutions. One of the main purposes of financial regulations is to maintain the integrity of the financial system. They also aim to enforce applicable laws, protect clients, prosecute cases of market misconduct, maintain confidence in the financial system, etc. Pushing for change in banking laws, maximizing profits for the financial system, and protecting institutions from customers are not purposes of financial regulations. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: Degirmenci, A. (2019, May 10). What is financial regulation and why is it important? Retrieved
February 6, 2024, from https://www.leasinglife.com/news/industry-news/what-is-financialregulation/?cf-view 

10. Which of the following statements about I bonds is true: 
A. You can buy an unlimited amount of them.
B. They earn interest for 5 years.
C. They protect money from inflation.
D. You can't cash them out until 30 years.

10. C
They protect money from inflation. I bonds are safe investments that protect money from losing value due to inflation. They do this by paying both a fixed rate return and an inflation-adjusted variable rate return. There is a limit to how much you can invest, as you generally can't buy more than $10,000 in I bonds each year. I bonds mature after 30 years, meaning that interest is continually earned for 30 years unless you cash them out. You can cash out an I bond as early as 1 year after your initial purchase. However, cashing in early, especially within 5 years, means you forfeit the last 3 months of interest earned. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: Gravier, E. (2023, March 6). I bonds: What to know about this inflation-protected asset that is offering
a 6.89% return. Retrieved February 6, 2024, from https://www.cnbc.com/select/what-are-i-bonds 

11. Which of the following best describes a Roth IRA: 
A. It gives you immediate tax benefits.
B. It ensures money grows tax-deferred.
C. It allows you to make after-tax contributions.
D. It allows you to make pre-tax contributions.

11. C
It allows you to make after-tax contributions. A Roth IRA is an Individual Retirement Account in which you contribute after-tax dollars. This means that your money grows tax-free and you can generally make tax-free and penalty-free withdrawals after the age of 59 1/2. With a traditional IRA, you contribute pre-tax dollars, meaning you receive immediate tax benefits. Traditional IRAs grow your money tax-deferred, and withdrawals are taxed as current income after you turn 59 1/2. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (2024). Roth IRA vs. traditional IRA. Retrieved February 7, 2024, from
https://www.schwab.com/ira/roth-vs-traditional-ira 

27. When using mobile payment apps such as Venmo, Apple Pay, and PayPal, it is important to 
A. collect at least $100 before transferring to your bank.
B. use them the same way you use your checking account.
C. keep money in your app to gain interest.
D. regularly transfer money in your app to your bank.

27. D
Regularly transfer money in your app to your bank. When using mobile payment apps such as Venmo, Apple Pay, and PayPal, it is important to regularly transfer money in your app to your bank. Rather than allowing the money you have in the app to stay in the app, you should transfer those funds back to your account at a bank or a credit union as soon as possible. Funds in these apps aren't insured while in the app, and these apps do not offer the same protections on funds that banks or credit unions do. Money in a mobile payment app does not gain interest. If you're looking to gain interest on those funds, you should transfer them to a savings account. You should not use these apps the same way you use your checking account. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: Dupaco Community Credit Union. (2023, September 1). Why you should stop using payment apps to
store cash. Retrieved February 6, 2024, from https://www.dupaco.com/2023/09/01/why-you-shouldstop-using-payment-apps-to-store-cash 

44. If Antonio wants to follow the "pay yourself first" method, what should he do when he receives his paycheck? 
A. Buy himself the gaming system he wants
B. Set aside money for his savings account
C. Pay his monthly rent
D. Make a payment on his car

44. B
Set aside money for his savings account. The "pay yourself first" method encourages setting aside money for things like savings and retirement before paying bills and making other purchases. So if Antonio wants to follow the "pay yourself first" method, he will transfer some of his check to his savings account before paying his rent and making a payment on his car. It is important to note that Antonio should still keep up with his debt obligations. After he puts some money into his savings, he should make sure he has enough left over to pay his debts (rent, car, credit card, loans, etc.). Antonio should buy himself a gaming system only if he can afford it after moving some money to his savings and paying off his debt. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: Capital One. (2023, March 14). Pay yourself first: What it means and how to do it. Retrieved
February 7, 2024, from https://www.capitalone.com/learn-grow/money-management/pay-yourselffirst 

49. Checking accounts are different than savings accounts because checking accounts 
A. are better for storing money.
B. are generally used for everyday spending.
C. typically earn more interest.
D. typically have withdrawal limits.

49. B
Are generally used for everyday spending. A checking account is an account held at a financial institution that allows deposits and withdrawals. Checking accounts are generally used for everyday spending and are better for regular transactions, such as bill payments, ATM withdrawals, and purchases. Savings accounts, on the other hand, are primarily used for storing and growing money. Checking accounts typically have no withdrawal limits, while savings accounts often have monthly limits on how often you can withdraw without paying a fee. Checking accounts typically earn less interest than savings accounts, and sometimes they don't earn any interest. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: Burnette, M. (2024, January 9). Checking vs. savings account: The difference and how to choose.
Retrieved February 6, 2024, from https://www.nerdwallet.com/article/banking/checking-vs-savings 

55. If a couple wants to combine their finances, what is the first thing they should do? 
A. Create a joint savings or investment account
B. Have an open and honest conversation about finances
C. Prepare a budget together
D. Identify shared financial goals

55. B
Have an open and honest conversation about finances. If a couple wants to combine their finances, the first thing they should do is to have an open and honest conversation about their financial situations. In this conversation, the couple should discuss their income, expenses, debts, financial obligations, goals, and aspirations. Once a couple has this conversation, they can then identify their shared goals and prioritize those goals. Then, the couple should prepare a budget to keep them on track with their financial goals. After all of this, the couple should create a joint savings or investment account. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: Monarch. (2023, October 16). The power of shared goals: The importance of a joint financial
roadmap. Retrieved February 7, 2024, from https://www.monarchmoney.com/blog/the-power-ofshared-goals-the-importance-of-a-joint-financial-roadmap 

56. Roman and Sam want to set aside money that will allow their daughter to pay for college in the future. What type of savings plan should they look into? 
A. Traditional IRA
B. Unsubsidized student loan
C. Roth IRA
D. 529 plan

56. D
529 plan. If Roman and Sam want to set aside money that will allow their daughter to pay for college in the future, they should look into a 529 plan. A 529 plan is tax-advantaged savings plan designed to help you save and grow money for educational purposes, such as saving for college. A traditional IRA is an Individual Retirement Account where you contribute pre-tax dollars. A Roth IRA is an Individual Retirement Account where you contribute after-tax dollars. Although unsubsidized student loans are often used to pay for college, it is not considered a savings plan. Unsubsidized loans are not based on financial need and are charged interest from the time of disbursement. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: Ramsey. (2024, January 4). ESA vs. 529: Which is better for you? Retrieved February 7, 2024, from
https://www.ramseysolutions.com/retirement/esa-529-comparison 

61. Which of the following statements about an opt-out retirement plan is true: 
A. Employers are required to offer a matching contribution.
B. Opt-out plans tend to decrease employee participation rates.
C. Eligible employees are automatically enrolled.
D. Employees cannot change their contribution percentages.

61. C
Eligible employees are automatically enrolled. An opt-out retirement plan is an employer-sponsored retirement savings plan that automatically enrolls all employees into the company's retirement savings plan, such as a 401(k) or SIMPLE IRA. Employees have the power to change their contribution percentages, opt-out of the plan entirely, and change the investments their money goes into. While many companies offer matching contributions as part of their 401(k) plans, they are not required by law to do so. Opt-out plans tend to increase (not decrease) employee participation rates. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: Kagan, J. (2021, August 10). Opt-out plan: What it is, how it works, pros and cons. Retrieved
February 7, 2024, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/o/opt-out-plan.asp 

63. Which of the following statements about the relationship between interest rates and the supply and demand of credit is true: 
A. An increase in the supply of credit will increase interest rates.
B. An increase in the demand for credit will raise interest rates.
C. A decrease in the supply of credit will reduce interest rates.
D. A decrease in the demand for credit will raise interest rates.

63. B
An increase in the demand for credit will raise interest rates. Interest rate levels are a key factor in the supply and demand of credit. Generally, an increase in the demand for credit will raise interest rates. Additionally, a decrease in the demand for credit will decrease (not raise) interest rates. In terms of the supply of credit, an increase in the supply of credit will reduce (not increase) interest rates. A decrease in the supply of credit will increase (not reduce) interest rates. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: Heakal, R. (2022, March 28). Forces that cause changes in interest rates. Retrieved February 6,
2024, from https://www.investopedia.com/insights/forces-behind-interest-rates 2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 16 

69. Melissa has a secret bank account that she hides from her husband, Luke, due to his spending habits. This is known as financial 
A. infidelity.
B. transparency.
C. accounting.
D. modeling.

69. A
Infidelity. Financial infidelity is a situation where one partner hides finances or money habits from the other partner. Because Melissa is hiding a secret bank account from Luke, this is an example of financial infidelity. Financial transparency is when partners are open and honest with each other about their finances and money habits. Financial accounting is a type of accounting that involves preparing and reporting financial data to external users who are not directly involved in business operations. Financial modeling is the task of building an abstract representation of a real-world financial situation. This scenario does not demonstrate financial transparency, financial accounting, or financial modeling. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: Monarch. (2023, October 16). The power of shared goals: The importance of a joint financial
roadmap. Retrieved February 7, 2024, from https://www.monarchmoney.com/blog/the-power-ofshared-goals-the-importance-of-a-joint-financial-roadmap 

86. Which of the following is an advantage of a health savings account: 
A. Contributions are made with after-tax dollars.
B. It has a low-deductible requirement.
C. The money in it remains available even if you change jobs.
D. It doesn't charge a monthly maintenance or per-transaction fee.

86. C
The money in it remains available even if you change jobs. A health savings account (HSA) is a personal savings account that can be used only for medical expenses. HSAs help people with high-deductible health insurance plans over out-of-pocket medical costs. HSAs have several advantages, including that the money in the account remains available for future qualified medical expenses even if you change jobs, retire, or change health insurance plans. Additionally, HSA contributions are made with pretax dollars (not after-tax dollars). This means that employers won't withhold taxes on these dollars. To be eligible for an HSA, you must be enrolled in a high-deductible health plan (not a low-deductible health plan). While not all HSAs charge a monthly maintenance or per-transaction fee, many do depending on the institution. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: Folger, J. (2023, December 19). What are the pros and cons of a health savings account (HSA)?
Retrieved February 7, 2024, from https://www.investopedia.com/articles/personalfinance/090814/pros-and-cons-health-savings-account-hsa.asp 

9. People who are saving for retirement are advised to save enough money to account for inflation because dollars used in the future will have 
A. higher exchange rates.
B. less spending power.
C. lower exchange rates.
D. higher spending power.

9. B
Less spending power. The time value of money is the concept that dollars received in the future will be worth less than a dollar received today because of the impact of inflation. Exchange rates rise and fall and refer to the transfer of one currency into another. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: Fernando, J. (2023, March 28). Time value of money explained with formula and examples. Retrieved
October 23, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/t/timevalueofmoney.asp PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 3 

15. When you are just beginning your career, what should be the main emphasis of your retirement planning efforts? 
A. Matching your employer's contributions
B. Taking monthly payouts from acquired assets
C. Setting aside money for retirement
D. Adjusting retirement plan to maintain acquired wealth

15. C
Setting aside money for retirement. The main emphasis of retirement planning early in one's career is saving money for the purpose of retirement. Near the end of one's career, adjustments help protect acquired wealth that is needed for retirement. Monthly payouts should not occur until one has reached retirement. Employees do not match employer's contributions. Some employers, however, match a percent of employee contributions to help employees meet retirement goals. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 8
SOURCE: Kagen, J. (2023, January 9). What is retirement planning? Steps, stages, and what to consider.
Retrieved October 24, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/r/retirement-planning.asp 

17. Which of the following statements regarding financial institutions is true: 
A. Finance and insurance institutions typically hinder the flow or movement of money through the economy.
B. Because each financial institution functions independently, the failure of one financial institution has little
effect on the others. C. Financial institutions concentrate the risk that individual savers and investors face among a small number of
borrowers. D. If the flow of money into a financial institution slows down, there is less money available for the institution to

17. D
If the flow of money into a financial institution slows down, there is less money available for the institution to lend or invest. Financial institutions act as intermediaries by transferring money from those who have it (savers and investors) to those who need it (borrowers). When a financial institution brings in less money, then it has less money available to lend or invest. Finance and insurance institutions help facilitate the flow or movement of money through the economy from those who have money to those who need money. Financial institutions reduce the risk that individual savers and investors face by spreading their funds out among many borrowers. That way, if a loan or investment goes bad, its impact on individual savers and investors is minimized. Financial institutions are often connected to each other through deposits, investments, and loans that they make to each other. If one financial institution fails, it has the potential to cause a string of other financial institution failures. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 8
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2023, February 12). Money supply definition: Types and how it affects the
economy. Retrieved October 24, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/m/moneysupply.asp 

46. Which of the following government agencies was created to ensure the stability of the U.S. banking system: 
A. Federal Communications Commission (FCC)
B. Federal Trade Commission (FTC)
C. Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
D. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC)

46. D
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) is a government agency created to ensure the stability of the U.S. banking system. Congress created the FDIC in 1933, during the Great Depression, to restore confidence in the country's financial system and protect individual depositors in the event of bank failures. The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) is a government agency that regulates interstate and international communications by radio, television, wire, satellite, and cable. The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) is a government regulatory agency that administers and enforces antitrust laws to prevent price fixing and to prohibit unfair competitive practices. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is a federal agency that collects taxes and enforces tax law.. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 8
SOURCE: Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. (n.d.). About the FDIC. Retrieved October 20, 2023, from
https://www.fdic.gov/ 

48. Which federal agency supervises banks and credit unions? 
A. Federal Trade Commission
B. Consumer Product Safety Commission
C. Federal Bureau of Investigation
D. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau

48. D
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau works to make financial products safe for consumers by educating and informing them; by supervising banks, credit unions, and other financial-services providers; and by studying consumer behavior. The Federal Bureau of Investigation gathers intelligence and conducts criminal investigations. The Consumer Product Safety Commission is the federal agency that carries the bulk of the responsibility for ensuring product safety. The Federal Trade Commission aims to protect consumers and to eliminate unfair business competition. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: National Archives and Records Administration. (n.d.). Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Retrieved
October 23, 2023, from https://www.federalregister.gov/agencies/consumer-financial-protection-bureau PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 12 

52. One of the biggest benefits of having a personal checking account is the ability to 
A. sign up for mobile/online banking.
B. invest in the stock market.
C. diversify your stock portfolio.
D. earn interest on your money.

52. A
Sign up for mobile/online banking. Most banks now offer online banking services to customers with personal checking accounts. Online banking is convenient, fast, and easy—and allows you to take care of most of your financial business without a visit to the bank. Personal checking accounts generally do not allow you to invest in the stock market, earn interest, or diversify your stock portfolio. You would need to use other financial products and services to do those things. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: Bank of America. (2023). 8 checking account features everyone should know. Retrieved October 25,
2023, from https://bettermoneyhabits.bankofamerica.com/en/personal-banking/checking-accountinformation 

57. A 401(k) is an example of a 
A. profit-sharing plan.
B. defined benefits plan.
C. social security benefit.
D. defined contribution plan.

57. D
Defined contribution plan. A defined contribution plan involves people funding their retirement savings with their own money, sometimes with additional contributions from employers. A 401(k) plan is an example of this type of plan because tax-free contributions are deducted from an employee's payroll and invested in securities. They are also sometimes matched by employers. In contrast, a defined benefits plan defines the amount of retirement income that will be paid, regardless of the success of the investments made. Social security benefits are federally funded retirement benefits. A profit-sharing plan involves employers making discretionary contributions to retirement savings, without any salary deferral or set amount of contributions. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: BlackRock. (2023). What is a defined contribution plan? Retrieved October 24, 2023, from
https://www.blackrock.com/us/individual/education/retirement/defined-contribution-plan PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 14 

65. Brandon is developing a financial plan, and one of his goals is to save enough money to buy a new car in two years. Has Brandon set a SMART goal? 
A. Yes, his goal is attainable and specific.
B. No, his goal is not attainable or results-oriented.
C. No, his goal is not specific or measurable.
D. Yes, his goal is time-bounded and measurable.

65. C
No, his goal is not specific or measurable. A financial goal is a short- or long-term objective that is measured in terms of money. Effective financial goals are SMART goals—specific, measurable, attainable, results-oriented, and time-bounded. The goal is time-bounded because Brandon wants to save money to buy a car two years from now. It is results-oriented because Brandon will have something to show for his effort in two years—a car. However, the goal is not specific or measurable, because Brandon has not indicated how much he wants to save for the car. Also, Brandon has not indicated how he plans to save for the car, such as placing 15% of his weekly paycheck in a special savings account. There is not enough information to determine if the goal is attainable, because it is not specific. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: Eby, K. (2019, January 9). The essential guide to writing SMART goals. Retrieved October 24, 2023,
from https://www.smartsheet.com/blog/essential-guide-writing-smart-goals PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 16 

69. Which of the following statements regarding financial institutions is true: 
A. Financial institutions facilitate the flow of money in the economy.
B. The primary role of financial institutions is to regulate saving and investing.
C. A financial institution with low value is doing a good job of managing its risk.
D. Financial institutions are controlled by their members.

69. A
Financial institutions facilitate the flow of money in the economy. Government/Semigovernment financial institutions, but not all financial institutions, carry out regulatory and supervisory functions. A financial institution with a high value, rather than a low value, is probably doing a good job of managing its risk and making money for stockholders. Credit unions are financial institutions that are owned by their members; however, not all financial institutions are credit unions. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 8
SOURCE: Connecticut Department of Banking. (2023). ABC's of banking: Banks and our economy. Retrieved
October 24, 2023, from https://portal.ct.gov/DOB/Consumer/Consumer-Education/ABCs-of-Banking—Banks-and-Our-Economy PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 17 

72. Ajay just won a school prize drawing and is awarded $100. To maximize the value of his money, when should he accept the $100? 
A. In five years
B. In six months
C. In one year
D. Now

72. D
Now. The time value of money explains the idea that money available now is worth more than the identical amount in the future because of its earning potential. If Ajay accepts the money now, it has the potential to earn interest over time. If he accepts the money at any later point (six months, one year, five years, etc.), then Ajay is missing out on the earning potential of the original $100. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 8
SOURCE: Fernando, J. (2023, March 28). Time value of money explained with formula and examples. Retrieved
October 24, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/t/timevalueofmoney.asp 

77. Which of the following financial services providers is most likely to provide a small, local coffee shop with business loans, checking and savings accounts, and overdraft protection: 
A. Marley and Winston Commercial Bank
B. Allen and Mellon Brokerage Firm
C. Walker, Steinbrenner, and Houghton, CPA Firm
D. Eastern Region Investment Bank

77. A
Marley and Winston Commercial Bank. Commercial banks provide a variety of financial services for businesses and individuals, such as checking and savings accounts, loans, credit cards, and overdraft protection. Investment banks primarily work with corporations by underwriting securities, aiding in mergers and acquisitions, etc. CPA (Certified Public Accountant) firms provide accounting services. A brokerage firm buys and sells securities on behalf of investors. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 8
SOURCE: Pritchard, J. (2022, January 29). What are the different types of banks? Retrieved October 24, 2023,
from https://www.thebalancemoney.com/types-of-banks-315214 

87. Which of the following is often used to determine how long it will take to double your money at a given interest or return rate: 
A. Earnings per share
B. Yield percentage
C. Debt ratio
D. Rule of 72

87. D
Rule of 72. The Rule of 72 is an equation that tells you how long it will take to double an investment or money in savings at a given interest or return rate. To determine how long it will take for the investment or money in savings to double, divide the number 72 by the interest rate or rate of return. Earnings per share is a financial ratio that tells you how much profit goes to each share of common stock. The yield percentage for a stock is the annual dividend divided by the current stock price. Debt ratios are a class of financial ratios that compare what a company owns to what it owes. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 8
SOURCE: Kenton, W. (2023, March 9). The Rule of 72: Definition, usefulness, and how to use it. Retrieved
October 20, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/r/ruleof72.asp 

90. Which of the following financial institutions typically deals only with institutional clients such as corporations and governments: 
A. Brokerage company
B. Investment bank
C. Investment company
D. Commercial bank

90. B
Investment bank. An investment bank does not typically deal with the general public; it acts as an intermediary for institutional clients such as corporations and governments by underwriting debt, issuing securities, facilitating mergers, and acting as a broker. Commercial banks provide banking services to the general public. Brokerage and investment companies provide the general public with investment opportunities. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: Horton, M. (2023, September 19). Different types of financial institutions. Retrieved October 24, 2023,
from https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/061615/what-are-major-categories-financialinstitutions-and-what-are-their-primary-roles.asp 

96. If you are having trouble sticking to your budget, you should 
A. pay in cash as frequently as possible.
B. use a mobile app that tracks purchases.
C. keep your budget to yourself.
D. only spend money on basic living expenses.

96. B
Use a mobile app that tracks purchases. There are many tools available that can help you manage your budget, including mobile apps and websites. Only spending money on basic living expenses is not realistic; you should be able to treat yourself and buy something nice for yourself once in a while. Paying in cash can make it more difficult to keep track of purchases because they are not automatically tracked by online banking or apps. Finally, keeping your budget to yourself can make it more difficult to stick to your budget because friends might pressure you into spending money or going to expensive places. Letting them know that you are saving money gives them the opportunity to support and encourage you. 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 12
SOURCE: Bocco, D. (2023, October 7). How can I make myself stick to a budget? Retrieved October 24, 2023,
from http://www.wisegeek.com/how-can-i-make-myself-stick-to-a-budget.htm 

