Entrepreneurship 2024 Exams

53. Which of the following roles of selling in our economy helps products be “in the right place at the right time”: 
A. Affects employment
B. Promotes competition
C. Adds utility
D. Helps customers determine needs

53. C
Adds utility. A product being “in the right place at the right time” means a skilled salesperson has added utility, or usefulness, to it. Selling also promotes competition, affects employment, and helps customers determine needs, but these are not illustrated in this situation. 
SOURCE: SE:017 Explain the nature and scope of the selling function
SOURCE: LAP-SE-017—Sell Away (The Nature and Scope of Selling)

19. Bradley is a salesman who routinely studies the features and components of his company’s products to better prepare for his sales pitches. What aspect of selling does this illustrate? 
A. It takes place to influence purchase decisions.
B. It should enhance future business opportunities.
C. It is a personalized communication
D. It is a planned communication.

19. D
It is a planned communication. Planned communication means spending time learning about your product and figuring out what makes your customers tick. That way, you know how to demonstrate your products’ features in a way that speaks to your particular customers’ needs. The time Bradley has spent studying his company’s products represents this planning. Selling should enhance future business opportunities, be personalized, and take place to influence purchase decisions, but these aspects are not illustrated by Bradley in this situation. 
SOURCE: SE:017 Explain the nature and scope of the selling function
SOURCE: LAP-SE-017—Sell Away (The Nature and Scope of Selling)

86. Selling goods and services to consumers through the use of middlemen is known as __________ selling. 
A. direct
B. indirect
C. suggestion
D. substitute

86. B
Indirect. Goods and services can be sold indirectly to the consumer, or user, through the use of middlemen, such as wholesalers and retailers. For example, a florist purchases flowers from suppliers and resells them to customers. Substitute selling is selling similar items in place of those items requested by customers. Direct selling is selling goods and services to customers without using middlemen. Suggestion selling is a sales technique in which the salesperson attempts to increase the customer's purchase by suggesting additional items after the original decision to buy has been made. 
SOURCE: SE:017 Explain the nature and scope of the selling function
SOURCE: LAP-SE-017—Sell Away (The Nature and Scope of Selling)
ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 21 

Hospitality 2024 Exams

30. Which of the following is a cruise-ship service that you should recommend to a senior couple with limited mobility: 
A. Parasailing
B. Cooking class
C. Horseback riding along the beach
D. Raft ride over river rapids

30. B
Cooking class. Service recommendations need to fit the needs of the customer. In this case, one of the customers lacks the mobility needed for parasailing, horseback riding, or raft riding. A cooking class would suit the senior couple's mobility limitations. 
SOURCE: SE:221 Recommend hospitality and tourism services
SOURCE: Holland America Line. (2023). Activities. Retrieved August 4, 2023, from
https://www.hollandamerica.com/en_US/onboard-activities.html 

51. Customers are often interested in where products come from and 
A. the names of manufacturing CEOs.
B. how they are manufactured.
C. the month and year they were invented.
D. how many the company has in its inventory.

51. B
How they are manufactured. Customers are often interested in where products come from and how they are manufactured (e.g., if an item is made in the U.S. and if it’s handcrafted). They are not likely to be interested in the names of manufacturing CEOs, the months and years products were invented, or how many the company has in its inventory. 
SOURCE: SE:062 Acquire product information for use in selling
SOURCE: LAP-SE-062—Get Informed (Acquiring Product Information for Use in Selling)

60. Good salespeople in the hospitality and tourism industry commonly use three techniques to determine customer/guest needs. What are those three techniques? 
A. Canvassing, qualifying, organizing
B. Presenting, visualizing, following up
C. Greeting, modifying, focusing
D. Observing, questioning, listening

60. D
Observing, questioning, listening. The best way to determine customer needs is to learn more about the customer. Observing includes nonverbal communication that the salesperson can use to better know their customer. Questioning lets the salesperson ask what the customer needs through different types of questions (yes/no, clarifying, open-ended, etc.). Listening is crucial, because if the salesperson asks a question and doesn't listen to the response, the question is useless. Presenting, visualizing, and follow-up usually occur after a customer's needs have been determined. Greeting, modifying, and focusing, as well as canvassing, qualifying, and organizing will not provide as much information about the customer as observing, questioning, and listening. 
SOURCE: SE:500 Determine hospitality and tourism customer/guest needs
SOURCE: Giannotti, F. (2023). Top 10 hospitality and tourism soft skills. Retrieved August 31, 2023,
from https://hospitalityinsights.ehl.edu/top-10-soft-skills-hospitality-tourism 

62. Ms. Woo is staying at a hotel that is across the street from the office of the client with whom she plans to meet. Which of the following factors most likely motivated Ms. Woo to select the hotel: 
A. Desire for convenience
B. Need for relaxation
C. Need for prestige
D. Desire for safety

62. A
Desire for convenience. Travelers select certain lodging facilities for many reasons or for a combination of reasons. Ms. Woo staying in a hotel across the street from her client's office implies that one reason Ms. Woo selected the hotel was for the convenience of being near the office where she was planning to attend a business meeting. Because there is not enough information revealed about the location or Ms. Woo, it cannot be determined whether additional factors for her selection included relaxation, safety, or prestige. 
SOURCE: SE:220 Explain factors that motivate people to choose a hospitality and tourism site
SOURCE: Tas, G. (2022). How do customers choose hotels? Retrieved August 4, 2023, from
https://www.gourmetmarketing.net/blog/how-do-customers-choose-hotels HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 15 

67. What do many hotel chains sell that provides the buyers or users with flexibility to make reservations at their convenience? 
A. Keyless cards
B. Gift cards
C. Contest passes
D. Spa points

67. B
Gift cards. Gift card sales are an important source of revenue for many types of hospitality businesses. Consumers purchase gift cards for others because the gift recipients can book a reservation where and when they want it, which provides them with flexibility. Hotel chains do not typically sell spa points, contest passes, or keyless cards. 
SOURCE: SE:479 Sell gift certificates in hospitality and tourism
SOURCE: Hochberg, E. (2020, December 7). 11 hotel and Airbnb gift cards to give now so they can use for
future travel. Retrieved August 4, 2023, from https://www.businessinsider.com/best-hotel-airbnb-giftcards HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 16 

87. To discover customer needs or wants, the salesperson should be skilled at 
A. questioning and listening.
B. talking and arguing.
C. coaxing and persuading.
D. watching and waiting.

87. A
Questioning and listening. The salesperson must develop their skills in both these areas if they are to be successful. Watching and waiting would be a passive approach to the customer—not likely to result in a sale. While some talking on the part of the salesperson is necessary, coaxing, arguing, persuading, and manipulating should be avoided as forms of high-pressure sales tactics. 
SOURCE: SE:048 Explain the selling process
SOURCE: LAP-SE-048—Set Your Sales (The Selling Process)

95. A restaurant's reputation for providing excellent service can attract faithful customers 
A. during seasonal sales only.
B. away from the competition.
C. with advertised specials.
D. because of the lower prices.

95. B
Away from the competition. One category of buying motives is known as patronage motives and includes such reasons as customer service and quality of merchandise. Because of patronage motives, a customer makes purchases in one store rather than in another. Information was not provided about lower prices, seasonal sales, or advertised specials. 
SOURCE: SE:076 Explain the role of customer service as a component of selling relationships
SOURCE: LAP-SE-076—Go Beyond the Sale (Customer Service in Selling)

16. Charlie has been really stressed at work and in his personal life lately. He books a trip to get away from his stress and take his mind off work. What is Charlie's motive for traveling? 
A. Novelty seeking
B. Nature
C. Escape/relax
D. Self-development

16. C
Escape/relax. A very common motive for travelers is to escape from the stress of their daily lives and to relax. In this scenario, Charlie is doing exactly that by booking a vacation to get away from his stress and take his mind off work. There is no evidence indicating that Charlie's travel motive is for self-development, nature, or novelty seeking. 
SOURCE: SE:509 Discuss motivations of travelers
SOURCE: Travel & Climate. (n.d.). Travel motives. Retrieved November 29, 2023, from
https://travelandclimate.org/travel-motives 

29. Which of the following is a way in which a company can effectively sell tour packages: 
A. Avoid personalized email marketing
B. Understand the target market
C. Regularly change prices
D. Advertise on YouTube, but not on social media

29. B
Understand the target market. Tour packages offer customers a hassle-free way to experience destinations by rolling a variety of elements into one, including accommodation, transportation, activities, and more. Tour packages are typically more cost-effective than buying each service individually, and they can help reduce the stress of planning. One of the best ways a company can effectively sell tour packages is by understanding its target market. This allows the company to effectively market toward them and curate tour packages to cater to their wants, needs, and interests. To effectively sell tour packages, companies should use personalized email marketing, advertise on social media (including YouTube, Facebook, Instagram, etc.), and keep its pricing consistent. 
SOURCE: SE:515 Sell packaged travel and tourism products
SOURCE: Rezdy. (2016, January 25). 8 tips for selling packaged tours. Retrieved November 29, 2023, from
https://rezdy.com/blog/tips-about-selling-packaged-tourism-products 

32. The Anderson family values the outdoors and natural attractions when they take vacations. Which of the following would be the best option for their next vacation: 
A. An all-inclusive beach resort
B. A city with several historical attractions
C. Great Smoky Mountains National Park
D. Cedar Point Amusement Park

32. C
Great Smoky Mountains National Park. Because the Anderson family values the outdoors and natural attractions when they take vacations, they should consider visiting the Great Smoky Mountains National Park. This is a great place for the family to hike, take in the scenery, and enjoy the outdoors and nature. Based off their interests, the Anderson family should not investigate an all-inclusive beach resort, Cedar Point Amusement Park, or a city with several historical attractions. 
SOURCE: SE:503 Explain the nature of a region’s geophysical/landscape/aesthetic features
SOURCE: Farrior, L. (n.d.). Finding your main attractors. Retrieved November 29, 2023, from
https://stampdestinations.com/good-work/insights/finding-your-main-attraction 

43. Which of the following is a benefit of key account management: 
A. It increases customer loyalty and trust.
B. It decreases the likelihood of customer recommendations.
C. It eliminates a company's competition.
D. It builds strong relationships with more customers.

43. A
It increases customer loyalty and trust. Key account management (KAM) is the process of managing and nurturing partnerships between a company and their customers. One of the biggest benefits of KAM is that it increases customer loyalty and trust. KAM focuses on building stronger relationships with fewer customers (not more customers) who show business potential. This means the company can increase the average size of sales deals. KAM also increases the likelihood of customer recommendations, as it helps companies become more valuable business partners to customers. KAM does not eliminate a company's competition. 
SOURCE: SE:381 Explain the nature of key account management
SOURCE: Indeed. (2023, February 22). What is key account management? (Definition, benefits and tips).
Retrieved November 29, 2023, from https://uk.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/whatis-key-account-management 2024 HS ICDC HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 11 

47. Which of the following is the first step to developing a sales proposal: 
A. Conduct market research
B. Draft an outline
C. Write the proposal
D. Understand the elements of a proposal

47. A
Conduct market research. A sales proposal is a written business document that pitches a product or service to customers or clients. The first step to developing a sales proposal is to conduct market research. Conducting market research helps you understand your audience and their needs, which you can use in your proposal. The second step is to understand the elements of a sales proposal, such as an executive summary, a reason to buy, and a thorough but concise explanation. The third step is to draft an outline, followed by writing the proposal and proofreading and editing the proposal. 
SOURCE: SE:517 Develop and submit sales proposal
SOURCE: Indeed. (2023, July 19). How to write a sales proposal in 5 steps (with template). Retrieved
November 29, 2023, from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/sales-proposal 2024 HS ICDC HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 12 

61. Which of the following is the first step one should take when planning a trip: 
A. Develop an itinerary
B. Arrange travel insurance
C. Pack efficiently
D. Determine the destination and duration

61. D
Determine the destination and duration. The first step one should take when planning a trip should be to determine the destination and duration. The second step is to set a realistic budget, followed by researching and booking accommodations, researching transportation options, creating a flexible itinerary, and checking passport/visa requirements. After doing all of this, one should then arrange travel insurance. Packing is one of the final steps of planning a trip. 
SOURCE: SE:505 Identify travel and tour plan options
SOURCE: Abbasi, I.U. (2023, June 18). How to plan a trip in 10 simple steps. Retrieved November 28, 2023,
from https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/how-plan-trip-10-simple-steps-iqbal-uddin-abbasi 

74. Which of the following actions would occur first in the prospecting process: 
A. Selecting sources and methods
B. Identifying and qualifying leads
C. Checking all sources to obtain leads
D. Constructing a lead list

74. A
Selecting sources and methods. Salespeople use the individual prospecting plans that work best for them; however, there are a few, basic steps that you can follow to construct and use a prospect list effectively. Step 1: Select prospecting sources and methods. There are many sources and methods available for your use. Choose the ones that are best suited for your company, your product(s), and you. Step 2: Check all sources. Consult your sources to obtain leads! Step 3: Construct a lead list. Compile a list of the leads that you were able to generate through your sources and methods. This list does not need to be arranged in any particular order. Step 4: Qualify leads. Leads are the names of individuals or organizations that might require your product(s), while prospects are qualified leads. A qualified lead is a potential customer with certain characteristics that make him/her more likely to purchase your product. 
SOURCE: SE:001 Prospect for customers
SOURCE: LAP-SE-001 Digging for Sales (Prospecting for Customers)

75. Candice tells her travel agent that she wants to take a vacation where she can immerse herself in the history and culture of the destination. What is Candice's motive for traveling? 
A. To exercise
B. To eat
C. To learn
D. To escape reality

75. C
To learn. Candice's motive for travel is to learn, as she wants to immerse herself in the history and culture of the destination. Traveling is a great way to educate yourself about landscapes, culture, history, lifestyles, and languages. There is no evidence indicating that Candice's travel motive is to escape reality, to eat, or to exercise. 
SOURCE: SE:511 Research tourism options fitting client motives
SOURCE: Trickett, C. (2018). 10 reasons to love travel. Retrieved November 29, 2023, from
https://www.andbeyond.com/magazine/10-reasons-to-love-travel 

99. Isaac and Penelope want to spend their next vacation skiing and snowboarding. What type of tourist destination should they investigate? 
A. Winter sports areas
B. Natural areas
C. Beach areas
D. Towns and cities

99. A
Winter sports areas. Because Isaac and Penelope want to spend their next vacation skiing and snowboarding, they should investigate winter sports areas. People travel to destinations with winter conditions (real or artificial) to participate in winter sports activities, such as skiing, snowboarding, ice skating, and tobogganing. Isaac and Penelope should not investigate beach areas (islands, resorts, etc.), towns and cities, or natural areas (mountains, forests, etc.) to ski or snowboard. 
SOURCE: SE:502 Discuss key travel destinations in major geographical regions
SOURCE: Stainton, H. (2023, January 9). The 9 types of tourist destinations. Retrieved November 28, 2023,
from https://tourismteacher.com/types-of-tourist-destinations 2024 HS ICDC HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 24 

22. When is the best time for a front-desk hotel employee to recommend hospitality services, such as dining and exercise facilities, to a hotel guest? 
A. During checkout
B. After posting charges
C. After posting credits
D. During check-in

22. D
During check-in. Hotel employees should inform guests of the hotel's services and amenities during the checkin process. Guests who are not aware that the hotel offers certain services will not use them, which can affect the guests' experience during their stay and can affect the hotel's sales. For example, a guest who does not realize that the hotel has an on-site restaurant will not dine there. As a result, the hotel's food and beverage division loses potential revenue. Advising guests about services during checkout is not beneficial to the guest or to the hotel. Posting is a term that describes adding or subtracting charges to a guest's bill. 
SOURCE: SE:221 Recommend hospitality and tourism services
SOURCE: Openkey. (2018, March 15). 6 ways to improve your hotel front desk team performance. Retrieved
September 27, 2023, from https://www.openkey.co/2018/03/15/6-ways-to-improve-your-hotel-frontdesk-team-performance/ 

60. The marketing function of selling involves __________ communication. 
A. impersonal
B. scripted
C. unplanned
D. planned

60. D
Planned. Selling is planned communication. That doesn't mean that salespeople read off scripts—instead, it means that salespeople have spent time learning about their products and figuring out what clients want and need. Selling is also personal communication, meaning that it should be tailored to each unique customer. 
SOURCE: SE:017 Explain the nature and scope of the selling function
SOURCE: LAP-SE-017—Sell Away (The Nature and Scope of Selling)

64. Taking a customer's order over the phone and accepting payment with a credit card is an example of 
A. implementing a mailing system.
B. processing a financial transaction.
C. guaranteeing product satisfaction.
D. reducing the possibility of counterfeiting.

64. B
Processing a financial transaction. When selling goods or services over the telephone, it is necessary to process the financial transaction. Many customers order products over the phone and pay with a credit card. When the business takes the credit card information from the customer, it then processes the information to complete the transaction of transferring funds to the business's account. Once the transaction is completed, the business has received payment for the tickets. Taking a customer's order over the phone and accepting payment with a credit card does not guarantee product satisfaction or reduce the possibility of counterfeiting. In many cases, products purchased over the phone are mailed to customers. However, taking the order and accepting payment is not an example of implementing a mailing system. 
SOURCE: SE:329 Process sales transactions (e.g., cash, credit, check)
SOURCE: Payment Depot. (n.d.). How to accept credit card payments over the phone. Retrieved September
27, 2023, from https://paymentdepot.com/blog/how-to-accept-credit-card-payments-over-the-phone/ 

80. It is important for the salesperson to establish communication with a customer to 
A. test the customer's mood.
B. choose a method of follow-up.
C. discover the customer's needs.
D. use feature-benefit selling.

80. C
Discover the customer’s needs. Only by discovering the needs of the customer through questioning and listening will the salesperson be in a position to recommend a good or service that will meet those needs. This process may indicate the customer’s mood, but that is not its purpose. The method of follow-up depends upon the selling situation. Feature-benefit selling is convincing customers that a good or service has the features that will provide the benefits they are looking for. 
SOURCE: SE:048 Explain the selling process
SOURCE: LAP-SE-048—Set Your Sales (The Selling Process)

81. When upselling to customers, it is important to 
A. mention that you work on commission.
B. help customers make good buying decisions.
C. recommend at least three additional items.
D. suggest the better quality, higher priced item.

81. B
Help customers make good buying decisions. Customer satisfaction should be the final goal and outcome of the entire selling process. While suggestion selling/upselling can benefit the company, salespeople, and customers, it is important to only suggest additional items that would be valuable for the customer. When upselling, it is smart to limit your suggestion to just one or two additional products. Mentioning that you work on commission will not help with upselling and instead might make customers lose trust in you as a salesperson. The better quality, higher priced item is not always the best fit for a customer. Salespeople should take customer budgets into account when selling items. 
SOURCE: SE:476 Up-sell to enhance customer experience
SOURCE: Patel, N. (2015, December 21). How to upsell any customer. Retrieved September 27, 2023, from
https://www.forbes.com/sites/neilpatel/2015/12/21/how-to-upsell-anycustomer/?sh=4e2ba771c406#33381c94c406. 

85. A restaurant patron wants to know what spices are in the soup. If the server doesn't know, they should 
A. tell the customer there are no spices in the soup.
B. offer to check with the cook.
C. tell the customer they don't know.
D. name a few spices that probably are in the soup.

85. B
Offer to check with the cook. Servers should obtain information about menu items from the kitchen staff on an ongoing basis. When patrons have food questions servers cannot answer, the servers should obtain the answers from the kitchen staff. Because customers may have dietary problems, servers should not guess at the contents of food dishes. Truthfulness is essential in dealing with customers, and a little extra consideration can prompt return business. 
SOURCE: SE:062 Acquire product information for use in selling
SOURCE: LAP-SE-062—Get Informed (Acquiring Product Information for Use in Selling)

88. Reinhart's Bakery purchases thousands of pounds of flour each year from a local mill. Reinhart's Bakery is considered a(n) __________ customer. 
A. personal
B. industrial
C. individual
D. group

88. B
Industrial. Businesses that buy from other businesses are called industrial customers. They often buy thousands of dollars' worth of equipment or materials. Individual customers, on the other hand, buy goods such as clothing and food, and services like insurance or car washes. Individual customers are individual people, whereas industrial customers are companies and organizations. “Group” and “personal” are not terms used to describe types of business customers. 
SOURCE: SE:828 Explain key factors in building a clientele
SOURCE: LAP-SE-828—Keep Them Loyal (Key Factors in Building Clientele)
HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 21 

98. Why should service employees always collect a coupon from customers rather than just keying the discount into the register? 
A. The employer can be reimbursed double the amount on the coupon instead of at face value.
B. It speeds up the amount of time that it takes to complete the transaction.
C. Customers will likely become upset if the coupon is not taken from them.
D. The coupon provides evidence that the service was provided.

98. D
The coupon provides evidence that the service was provided. A coupon serves as a physical record that a discount was provided when the customer paid for the service. This is especially important when a service marketer needs to be reimbursed by the appropriate party for the amount on the coupon. Service marketers that choose to double the value of coupons must make up the difference between the face value printed on the coupon and the doubled amount. Customers do not get mad when their coupons are not taken from them because it offers them another opportunity to enjoy a discounted price. If anything, accepting a coupon would slightly slow down the transaction time because the discount must be entered into the register; however, the amount of time is negligible. 
SOURCE: SE:149 Process complimentary offers and coupons/discounts
SOURCE: How Stuff Works. (n.d.). How do store coupons work? Retrieved September 27, 2023, from
https://money.howstuffworks.com/personal-finance/budgeting/question426.htm 

Marketing 2024 Exams

30. To reduce the risk of bribery in selling situations, it is a good idea for businesses to develop 
A. product delivery policies.
B. promotional budgets.
C. entertainment guidelines.
D. diversity training manuals.

30. C
Entertainment guidelines. During the selling process, salespeople often encounter situations that are not clearly right or wrong. Salespeople tend to judge these situations differently—according to their personal code of ethics. One of the questionable situations that salespeople might encounter involves entertaining customers. While some businesses view entertainment as a way to build positive customer relationships, others view it as favoritism or bribery. By developing entertainment guidelines for their salespeople, businesses can clearly communicate acceptable and unacceptable entertainment activities. A promotional budget is a forecast of the money that the business plans to spend on promoting its goods and services during a certain timeframe. Diversity training manuals are designed to help employees understand diversity issues in the workplace. Product delivery policies are the business's guidelines for delivering products to its customers. 
SOURCE: SE:106 Explain legal and ethical considerations in selling
SOURCE: LAP-SE-106—Keep It Real—In Sales (Legal and Ethical Considerations in Selling)

35. How does selling help create possession utility? 
A. By affecting employment
B. By increasing competition
C. By creating desire for products
D. By keeping the economy moving

35. C
By creating desire for products. Possession utility is usefulness created when ownership of a product is transferred from the seller to the user. Skilled salespeople are able to create desire for products by discussing product features and benefits, thereby encouraging possession utility. Selling also helps keep our economy moving, increase competition, and affect employment, but those factors are not related to possession utility. 
SOURCE: SE:017 Explain the nature and scope of the selling function
SOURCE: LAP-SE-017—Sell Away (The Nature and Scope of Selling)

42. Which of the following is an example of how building a clientele benefits the business: 
A. Increased knowledge
B. Personal satisfaction
C. Increased sales volume
D. Increased selling costs

42. C
Increased sales volume. A clientele is a group of regular, repeat customers. An increase in sales is a direct result of building a clientele. Loyal customers return to buy regularly, thus providing the financial backbone for a growing business. Building a clientele helps reduce selling costs, not increase them. Personal satisfaction and increased knowledge are salesperson benefits of building a clientele, not business benefits. 
SOURCE: SE:828 Explain key factors in building a clientele
SOURCE: LAP-SE-828—Keep Them Loyal (Key Factors in Building Clientele)

47. Because product quality and price can easily be matched, customer service becomes a key component in business 
A. communications.
B. competition.
C. careers.
D. forecasts.

47. B
Competition. Because product quality and price can easily be matched, customer service becomes a key component in business competition. In selling, customer service is where the real competition among businesses begins. As a salesperson, you need to show your prospects that your company meets (and hopefully exceeds) customer service expectations. Customer service is not a key component in business careers, business communication, or business forecasts. 
SOURCE: SE:076 Explain the role of customer service as a component of selling relationships
SOURCE: LAP-SE-076—Go Beyond the Sale (Customer Service in Selling)

51. Which of the following could you get from customers that would be useful in the selling process: 
A. Promotional materials
B. Manuals
C. Catalogs
D. Testimonials

51. D
a good source of information about products. Their comments, or testimonials, can be of value in making future sales. Catalogs, manuals, and other promotional materials are provided by the business or manufacturer. 
SOURCE: SE:109 Analyze product information to identify product features and benefits
SOURCE: LAP-SE-109—Find Features, Boost Benefits (Feature-Benefit Selling)

91. Salespeople often find useful selling information in the business's own __________ materials. 
A. highlighting
B. networking
C. advertising
D. telemarketing

91. C
Advertising. Businesses often develop advertising that describes the features and benefits of their goods and services and explains why the customer should buy them. Salespeople can use the information contained in the businesses' advertising to help them sell. Telemarketing is a method of selling that uses personal calls on the phone. Networking is the process of developing business contacts. Highlighting is emphasizing an earlier statement. 
SOURCE: SE:062 Acquire product information for use in selling
SOURCE: Indeed. (2022, June 24). 15 types of sales materials to move consumers forward in the buying
process. Retrieved August 3, 2023, from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/careerdevelopment/sales-materials 

18. Which of the following sources of information is most likely to help salespeople learn more about their competition: 
A. Sales representatives
B. Manufacturers
C. Trade exhibitions
D. Customers

18. C
Trade exhibitions. Many industries hold trade shows or fairs on a regular basis. Attending trade exhibitions is an excellent way for salespeople to acquire information about the products they sell as well as competing products. Customers, other sales representatives, and product manufacturers are all helpful sources of information, but they are less likely than trade exhibitions to provide information about competing products or companies. 
SOURCE: SE:062 Acquire product information for use in selling
SOURCE: LAP-SE-062—Get Informed (Acquiring Product Information for Use in Selling)
2024 HS ICDC MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 5 

25. Brooke, a salesperson, recently sold a dishwasher to a customer. Weeks after the purchase, Brooke reaches out to the customer to confirm they had a successful installation. As a result, Brooke builds client loyalty by 
A. prospecting.
B. presenting.
C. following up.
D. preparing.

25. C
Following up. During follow up, salespeople make sure customers are satisfied with the product. This might include checking on installation, handling a problem, or answering billing questions. Whatever the customer wants or needs, the salesperson tries to provide. Prospecting is the act of identifying any person or organization with the potential to buy a product and compiling that information in an organized manner for future use. This is not an example of prospecting, preparing, or presenting. 
SOURCE: SE:828 Explain key factors in building a clientele
SOURCE: LAP-SE-828—Keep Them Loyal (Key Factors in Building Clientele)

35. Which of the following is an example of an external factor impacting a business’s selling policies: 
A. Customer wants and needs
B. Research and development efforts
C. Corporate goals and objectives
D. Production capacity

35. A
Customer wants and needs. Forces operating in the business environment over which the business has little or no control are known as external factors. Examples of external factors include customer wants and needs, competitors’ actions, availability of raw materials, and social concerns. Corporate goals and objectives, production capacity, and research and development efforts are internal factors affecting company selling policies. 
SOURCE: SE:932 Explain company selling policies
SOURCE: LAP-SE-932—Sell Right (Selling Policies)

41. Understanding that customers don’t just buy products, they buy what the product can do for them is a foundational concept illustrated by __________ selling. 
A. idea
B. feature-benefit
C. suggestion
D. personal

41. B
Feature-benefit. It’s important to keep in mind that customers do not actually buy features. They buy benefits. In other words, they are not buying the product itself; rather, they are buying what the product can do for them. To complete a sale, you must be able to translate the features of your product into benefits for the individual customer or client. Idea selling is the process of convincing other people that an idea, proposal, or strategy will lead to positive results for them or for their organization. Personal selling is the form of promotion that determines client needs and wants and responds through planned, personalized communication that influences purchase decisions and enhances future business opportunities. Suggestion selling is a sales technique in which the salesperson attempts to increase the customer's purchase by recommending additional items after the original decision to buy has been made; also known as suggestive selling. 
SOURCE: SE:109 Analyze product information to identify product features and benefits
SOURCE: LAP-SE-109—Find Features, Boost Benefits (Feature-Benefit Selling)

55. After completing a sale, Marsha always sends a brief online survey to ask the customer about their experience. This is an example of which of the following customer service strategies: 
A. Offering discounts
B. Soliciting feedback
C. Having a good attitude
D. Being prompt

55. B
Soliciting feedback. There’s only one way to know if your customer is satisfied—ask! It’s important to give your customers convenient, user-friendly ways to provide feedback, like a comment card or online survey. Because Marsha sends customers a brief online survey to ask about their experience, she is using the soliciting feedback customer service strategy. This is not an example of being prompt, having a good attitude, or offering discounts. 
SOURCE: SE:076 Explain the role of customer service as a component of selling relationships
SOURCE: LAP-SE-076—Go Beyond the Sale (Customer Service in Selling)
2024 HS ICDC MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 13 

81. Which of the following is an example of bribery: 
A. Jane ran late this morning and didn’t pack a lunch, so her coworker buys her a meal on their lunchbreak.
B. In exchange for helping her meet her sales quota, Jane promises Tim season hockey tickets.
C. Jane’s customer is having trouble deciding on a new car, so she shows him additional models.
D. To help make a sale, Jane asks her customer what information will be most valuable to him.

81. B
In exchange for helping her meet her sales quota, Jane promises Tim season hockey tickets. Bribery is making illegal payments intended to secure business or products in return. If one company really wants to secure an order from another company, it may offer a bribe, like money, gifts, or other perks, in exchange for the sale. By offering season tickets, Jane is bribing Tim to help her reach her sales quota. Showing a customer additional products or asking them what information they would prefer is not bribery. An employee buying lunch for a coworker is not necessarily bribery. 
SOURCE: SE:106 Explain legal and ethical considerations in selling
SOURCE: LAP-SE-106—Keep It Real—In Sales (Legal and Ethical Considerations in Selling)

91. Although Francesca loved the idea of purchasing a luxury car—and the image it presented to others—she ultimately decided to buy a station wagon because it provided her family more safety and security. What theory might explain Francesca’s buying behavior? 
A. Keynesian Theory of Unemployment
B. Maslow’s Hierarchy of Needs
C. Informed Consent
D. Societal Marketing Concept

91. B
Maslow’s Hierarchy of Needs. Maslow’s Hierarchy of Needs is a content theory of motivation in which needs are arranged in five levels: physiological, safety/security, social, esteem/status, and self-fulfillment. Because Francesca chose to make a purchase based on safety/security needs before esteem/status needs, this is most likely a demonstration of Maslow’s Hierarchy of Needs. The Keynesian Theory of Unemployment is a set of ideas that assumes unemployment begins when businesses cut wages and can be controlled by increasing demand and encouraging spending. The Societal Marketing Concept is a philosophy of conducting business which involves creating and marketing products that benefit individual customers as well as contribute to the good of society as a whole. Informed consent is a voluntary agreement to participate in research given with knowledge and understanding of the study’s goal and what participation will involve. 
SOURCE: SE:359 Discuss motivational theories that impact buying behavior
SOURCE: Swifterm. (2023, April 28). How Maslow’s hierarchy of needs is reflected in consumer behavior.
Retrieved September 9, 2023, from https://swifterm.com/maslows-hierarchy-of-consumer-behaviour/ 2024 HS ICDC MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 21 

92. Which of the following technologies can help simplify the sales process by collecting, organizing, and reporting data: 
A. Voice over Internal Protocol (VoIP)
B. Global Positioning Systems (GPS)
C. Customer Relationship Management (CRM) software
D. Computer-Aided Design (CAD)

92. C
Customer Relationship Management (CRM) software. Customer Relationship Management software includes computer programs that provide businesses with information about their customers; this technology can be used to collect, organize, and report data about customers and streamline the sales process. Computer-Aided Design (CAD) is the use of technology and software to create, test, and rework products in the virtual world before spending money to produce them in the physical world. Global Positioning Systems (GPS) are navigational systems that use satellite technology to determine location and provide directions. Voice over Internal Protocol (VoIP) is technology that allows users to make phone and video calls over the internet. 
SOURCE: SE:107 Describe the use of technology in the selling function
SOURCE: Impact. (2022, August 25). 5 innovative technologies that can actually improve sales performance.
Retrieved September 1, 2023, from https://www.impactmybiz.com/blog/how-to-improve-salesperformance-with-technology/ 

11. Salespeople may risk losing a sale to a potential customer if they are unable to explain a business's __________ policies. 
A. employee
B. operating
C. purchasing
D. selling

11. D
Selling. Selling policies are general rules established by management to guide the personal selling effort and outline how things must be done. Salespeople may encounter problems when they are not knowledgeable about their company's selling policies and are unable to explain them to potential customers. Salespeople may risk losing a sale if they are unable to explain policies about issues such as credit terms and delivery service. Operating policies regulate the actual running of a business. Employee policies are guidelines explaining how employees are to act and how they are to deal with customers. Purchasing policies are guidelines that direct purchasing decisions. 
SOURCE: SE:932 Explain company selling policies
SOURCE: LAP-SE-932--Sell Right (Selling Policies)

31. Which of the following activities plays an important interactive role in securing client goodwill and patronage: 
A. Managing
B. Selling
C. Promoting
D. Purchasing

31. B
Selling. Selling activities involve approaching the prospective customer and attempting to make a sale. Through these important interactive activities, salespeople build rapport with customers, thereby building goodwill for the business and solidifying customer/client relationships. None of the other alternatives involves regular interaction with customers. Promoting involves informing customers about goods and services. Managing is the process of coordinating resources to accomplish an organization's goals. Purchasing is the planning and procedures necessary to obtain goods and services for resale. 
SOURCE: SE:828 Explain key factors in building a clientele
SOURCE: LAP-SE-828--Keep Them Loyal (Key Factors in Building Clientele)
MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 8 

58. The salesperson says, "Mrs. Jones, the Model 2XY upright vacuum cleaner has attachments that allow you to remove dust from furniture, draperies, and ceiling fans. It also has a steamer that deep cleans carpets." This is an example of a salesperson describing the product's 
A. durability.
B. construction.
C. multiple uses.
D. unique style.

58. C
Multiple uses. Salespeople are more likely to make a sale if they clearly communicate a product's features and benefits. Some products perform multiple functions, which are features that provide benefits--customers do not need to buy individual items to perform each function. The vacuum cleaner can perform several functions--it sucks up dirt from carpets and floors; it has attachments to remove dust from furniture, draperies, and ceiling fans; and it deep cleans carpets. The example does not communicate information about the vacuum cleaner's construction, durability, or style. 
SOURCE: SE:109 Analyze product information to identify product features and benefits
SOURCE: LAP-SE-109--Find Features, Boost Benefits (Feature-Benefit Selling)
MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 14 

62. A sporting goods manufacturer has spent $1 million on magazine advertising featuring well-known sports figures. As a salesperson, how should you use these promotions during a sales presentation? 
A. To build customer confidence
B. To prove the equipment is the best buy
C. To shorten the sales presentation
D. To forecast sales

62. A
To build customer confidence. Prospective customers pay attention to statements from experts in the field who are willing to recommend a product. They feel if the product satisfies the expert, it will satisfy them. The testimonial may not shorten the sales presentation, and that should not be the salesperson's intention. A testimonial ad cannot help predict what sales of a product will be or prove that it is a better buy than another product. Advertising campaigns do not necessarily guarantee the best buy. 
SOURCE: SE:062 Acquire product information for use in selling
SOURCE: Patel, S. (2023, July 18). The top 13 sales methodologies to consider for your business. Retrieved
September 19, 2023, from https://mailshake.com/blog/sales-methodologies 

69. Salespeople offer solutions to customers' needs by demonstrating their products and encouraging customers to __________ the products. 
A. handle
B. approve
C. admire
D. watch

69. A
Handle. Salespeople demonstrate products to show customers how the products will solve customers' problems or meet their needs. Salespeople try to appeal to customers' senses by getting the product into the customers' hands and showing them how it works. Handling a product makes customers feel a sense of ownership and encourages them to buy. Having customers handle the product is more likely to encourage customers to buy than letting them watch the salesperson handle the product. The final objective of any demonstration is not just to have the customer admire or approve of the product but to purchase it. 
SOURCE: SE:048 Explain the selling process
SOURCE: Robertson, K. (2021, January 8). How to create a powerful sales presentation: Seven presentation
tips for making a presentation that makes the sale. Retrieved September 19, 2023, from https://www.liveabout.com/how-to-create-a-powerful-sales-presentation-2948462 

97. Customers' service expectations are 
A. based on past experiences.
B. not affected by advertising.
C. one size fits all.
D. dependent on the needs of others.

97. A
Based on past experiences. Customers’ service expectations can often be based on past experiences. If a customer has received customer service from you before, they will expect the same quality of service from you now. Customers can also compare your service to past service they’ve received from competitors. Customers’ service expectations are not dependent on the needs of others--instead, they are dependent on individual needs. Customer service expectations are not one size fits all. They are affected by promotion. 
SOURCE: SE:076 Explain the role of customer service as a component of selling relationships
SOURCE: LAP-SE-076--Go Beyond the Sale (Customer Service in Selling)

98. Which of the following is an example of a product being sold to an organization for resale: 
A. A potter sells pottery at a flea market.
B. A retailer sells a small refrigerator to a coffee shop.
C. A wholesaler sells candy to a concession stand.
D. A farmer sells produce to a restaurant.

98. C
A wholesaler sells candy to a concession stand. A wholesaler selling candy to a concession stand is an example of a product being sold to an organization for resale. A retailer selling a small refrigerator to a coffee shop is an example of a product being sold for use in general business operations. A farmer selling produce to a restaurant is an example of a product being sold to an organization for use in producing other goods. A potter selling pottery at a flea market is an example of a product being sold directly to the user for ultimate consumption. 
SOURCE: SE:017 Explain the nature and scope of the selling function
SOURCE: LAP-SE-017--Sell Away (The Nature and Scope of Selling)
MARKETING CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 23 

