4. Kia wants to buy a bike. She researches information about different models and finds the following review on a website called Ben's Bike Blog for the FreeStyle 9000: “I love this bike so much! It is the best model I have found for my needs. No need to look anywhere else for a bike you will enjoy—contact me if you would like to learn more.” After looking through the website, Kia realizes that Ben sells this model of bike. This website possibly demonstrates 
A. bias.
B. liability.
C. fraud.
D. reliability.

4. A
Bias. Bias is an inclination to have a certain perspective in favor or against a person, group of people, or thing. Because Ben sells the bikes, he could have a favorable bias toward the FreeStyle 9000; he stands to benefit from their sale. Reliability is how consistently a product performs over time. Fraud is a deception purposely carried out to secure unfair or unlawful gain. Liability is a debt, usually money, that the business owes. This scenario does not give enough information to suggest reliability, fraud, or liability. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 8
SOURCE: Contes, A. (2023). Debunking the myth: Separating fact from fiction in online review bias. Retrieved
August 30, 2023, from https://reviewgrower.com/online-review-bias/ 4.4%. To determine the rate of return (percentage of interest earned), first subtract the deposit amount from the
amount of money in the savings account at the end of the year, which indicates the amount of interest earned in dollars ($1,722.08 - $1,650 = $72.08). Then, divide the amount of interest earned in dollars by the original deposit amount to obtain the rate of return as a percentage ($72.08 ÷ $1,650 = .0436, which rounds to .044 [4.4%]). 
SOURCE: Saving Grade 8

8. Which of the following is a disadvantage of using cash as a form of financial exchange: 
A. The risk of theft decreases.
B. It is easy to steal or lose.
C. Cash payments often incur fees.
D. There is a higher risk of fraud.

8. B
It is easy to steal or lose. Cash, more so than other forms of financial exchange, is easy to steal or lose. Carrying a large amount of cash on you places you at a higher risk for theft. Cash payments do not incur fees the way that some other forms of payment sometimes do. There is a relatively low risk of fraud with cash. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 8
SOURCE: Myers, C. (n.d.). Advantages & disadvantages of the way customers pay businesses. Retrieved
August 29, 2023, from http://smallbusiness.chron.com/advantages-disadvantages-way-customerspay-businesses-22024.html 

9. An advantage of using cash as a payment method is the fact that 
A. there are no security benefits.
B. it is inconvenient.
C. there are no hidden fees.
D. it helps build credit.

9. C
There are no hidden fees. An advantage of using cash as a payment method is the fact that there are no hidden fees. Disadvantages of using cash are that it can be inconvenient to carry cash, it does not help build credit, and there are no security benefits if it is stolen or lost. Paying solely with cash means not taking on debt, as you can only spend as much cash as you have. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 8
SOURCE: Christensen, T. (2022, May 19). The variety of payment methods may surprise you. Retrieved
August 29, 2023, from https://moneyfit.org/different-payment-methods 

27. Nala, who is preparing a personal budget, is determining her fixed and variable expenses. Which of the following is most likely to represent a fixed expense: 
A. Gasoline
B. Electric bill
C. Groceries
D. Car payment

27. D
Car payment. Car payments are typically set up as a fixed monthly payment amount. Electric bills can vary depending on the amount of energy used. The amount spent on groceries can vary greatly depending on the types of food purchased. The amount spent on gasoline would vary depending on the amount of travel. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 8
SOURCE: Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. (2022, Summer). Differentiating fixed and variable
expenses. Retrieved August 30, 2023, from https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_building_block_activities_differentiating-fixedvariable-expenses_guide.pdf PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 7 

29. On his way home from work, Jason stops at the gas station to buy a magazine and a pack of gum. The magazine and gum are examples of __________ expenses. 
A. nonessential
B. essential
C. variable
D. fixed

29. A
Nonessential. The gum and the magazine are extras and, therefore, nonessential. An example of an essential expense would be paying the rent or car loans. Rent and car loans are also examples of fixed expenses. Variable expenses are also essential expenses, but they vary from month to month. Some examples are heating and electric bills and gasoline. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 8
SOURCE: Milano, S. (2022, June 25). How to identify "essential" and "non-essential" expenses. Retrieved
August 30, 2023, from https://pocketsense.com/identify-essential-nonessential-expenses12211191.html 

34. Sam's family has just had a baby. What should Sam do with his financial plan? 
A. Continue to follow his plan as he has been
B. Submit a copy of the plan to be notarized
C. Reassess the plan and modify it as needed
D. Create a completely different plan from scratch

34. C
Reassess the plan and modify it as needed. As much as we want to make a plan and stick to it, that isn't always possible when life constantly changes. That means the plan needs to receive modifications occasionally, especially when a big life event happens like having a baby. Financial plans do not need to be notarized. The new family member might render the original plan inaccurate or unfeasible. It might not be necessary to create a completely different financial plan from scratch when some modification to the original plan will suffice. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 8
SOURCE: Thune, K. (2021, October 26). The 7 steps of financial planning. Retrieved August 30, 2023, from
https://www.thebalancemoney.com/the-steps-of-financial-planning-2466498 

35. Which of the following is most likely to be an unwise purchase to make using credit: 
A. A car
B. A house
C. A hot tub
D. An education

35. C
A hot tub. Credit is the arrangement by which people can purchase now and pay later. Credit is often used for large purchases. Credit should be used for purchases that are necessary or provide value. For example, buying a house will give the buyer additional assets. Paying for an education will increase earning potential and represents good return on investment. Buying a car is often necessary to get to and from work, which provides compensation. Paying for a hot tub is not a wise use of credit, because it is a purchase made from a want rather than a need. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 8
SOURCE: Money Instructor. (n.d.) Using credit wisely. Retrieved August 30, 2023, from
http://content.moneyinstructor.com/510/using-credit-wisely.html 

52. Nina needs to buy her textbooks for college. Instead of getting them from the school bookstore, she finds a way to rent them online for much less money. Nina is 
A. a victim of a scam.
B. investing rather than saving.
C. comparison shopping.
D. impulse buying.

52. C
Comparison shopping. Comparison shopping involves looking at the prices of various products/services from different vendors before buying. Comparison shopping is a good financial decision because it can help you get the best value for your money. Nina is able to get a better price for her textbooks because she took the time to comparison shop. Nina is not impulse buying, a victim of a scam, or investing rather than saving in this example. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 8
SOURCE: Campbell, J. (2021, February 22). How to master the art of comparison shopping. Retrieved August
30, 2023, from https://www.moneymanagement.org/blog/comparison-shopping 

74. You are more likely to achieve your goals if they are 
A. short-term.
B. long-term.
C. written down.
D. based on needs only.

74. C
Written down. People who have written goals accomplish 50 to 100 times more than people who do not. You are not more likely to achieve goals that are based on needs only or that are long- or short-term. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 8
SOURCE: Pettit, M. (2020, March 4). The importance of writing down your goals. Retrieved August 30, 2023,
from https://lucemiconsulting.co.uk/writing-down-your-goals/ 

80. By developing a personal budget, individuals will be able to review their 
A. investment plans.
B. spending patterns.
C. insurance policy coverage.
D. bank statements.

80. B
Spending patterns. A budget is an estimate of what income and expenses will be for a specific time period. The expense section of a budget helps individuals review their spending patterns, which are the ways that they spend money. For example, a budget might indicate that a lot of money was being spent on convenience foods or casual clothing. This indicates a spending pattern that may need to be changed depending on the amount of income. Developing a personal budget will not enable individuals to review their insurance policy coverage, investment plans, or bank statements. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 8
SOURCE: Practical Money Skills. (2023). Creating a budget. Retrieved August 30, 2023, from
https://mena.practicalmoneyskills.com/learn/budgeting/creating-a-budget 

85. Which of the following enables you to make a purchase with money directly from a checking account: 
A. Collateral
B. Debit card
C. Cash
D. Credit card

85. B
Debit card. A debit card is a plastic card issued by banks that enables the cardholder to make purchases with money directly from a checking account. A credit card is a plastic card issued by banks that enables the cardholder to make purchases using credit. Cash is currency and coins. Collateral is anything of value belonging to the borrower that is pledged to the lender to guarantee that the loan will be repaid. Credit cards, cash, and collateral are not typically connected to checking accounts. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 8
SOURCE: Huntington. (2023). What's the difference between credit and debit cards? Retrieved August 30,
2023, from https://www.huntington.com/learn/checking-basics/difference-between-credit-debit 

89. Fayth is developing her personal budget. She intends to save 10% of her income, use 38% of her income for housing and utilities, spend 14% on food, devote 20% to transportation, and set aside the rest for clothing, recreation, and entertainment. She earns $958 per pay period. How much money does she plan to spend on clothing, recreation, and entertainment each pay period? 
A. $306.56
B. $134.12
C. $288.34
D. $172.44

89. D
$172.44. To calculate how much money Fayth has budgeted for clothing, recreation, and entertainment, first add together the portions of her income that she plans to use for everything else (10% + 38% + 14% + 20% = 82%). She plans to devote 82% of her income to savings, housing and utilities, food, and transportation. Since she wants to set the rest of her pay aside for clothing, recreation, and entertainment, subtract the percentage of her income spent on everything else from 100% (100 - 82 = 18%). Finally, multiply her income per pay period by 18% to find how much money she plans to spend on clothing, recreation, and entertainment ($958 X 18% = $172.44). 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 8
SOURCE: Clark.com. (2023, May 30). Free budget worksheet: The CLARK method to create a monthly
budget. Retrieved August 30, 2023, from https://clark.com/personal-finance-credit/budgetingsaving/budget-worksheet/ 

91. One of the reasons that businesses and consumers use credit is because it provides 
A. reassurance.
B. interest.
C. convenience.
D. collateral.

91. C
Convenience. Credit allows businesses and consumers to pay for several different purchases at one time with a single payment. It reduces the need to carry cash and provides the convenience of ordering online or by phone. Collateral is anything of value belonging to the borrower which is pledged to the lender to guarantee that the loan will be repaid. Interest is the fee which lenders charge borrowers for the use of credit. Credit does not provide reassurance. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 8
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance)

95. Taryn is choosing between two apartments. Which of the following factors is most important for her to consider in order to make a responsible financial decision: 
A. The size of the bedroom
B. The appliances
C. The cost of rent
D. The location

95. C
The cost of rent. When making a financial decision, Taryn can show responsibility by focusing on financial criteria to help guide her choice. She should focus on the cost of rent rather than any other aspects of the apartments so that she chooses the more financially responsible option. While appliances, the size of the bedroom, and the location are important, they will not necessarily help Taryn make the most financially responsible choice. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 8
SOURCE: Smith, L. (2021, August 15). The basics of financial responsibility. Retrieved August 30, 2023, from
https://www.investopedia.com/articles/pf/09/financial-responsibility.asp 

2. Which of the following is an example of broadcast media: 
A. Direct mail
B. Banner ad
C. TV
D. Newspaper

2. C
TV. Broadcast media is promotional media including radio and TV that may be transmitted through the air, cable, or internet. Broadcast media are considered “time” media, as opposed to “space” media because their advertisements last only as long as they are on the air. Newspapers are a type of publication. Banner ads are a type of digital advertisement. Direct mail can include printed mail or email. Newspapers, banner ads, and direct mail are not examples of broadcast media. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-PR-007—Ad-quipping Your Business (Types of Advertising Media)

8. John is typically good about sticking to his budget, but due to unforeseen events, he is anticipating a hefty car repair bill next month. What should John do to adjust for this unexpected expense in his budget? 
A. Decrease essential expenses
B. Increase nonessential expenses
C. Earn more money
D. Reevaluate his spending habits

8. D
Reevaluate his spending habits. Emergencies happen to everyone. It’s a good idea to have an emergency fund saved up in case you incur unexpected expenses. However, if you don’t have an emergency fund, you can also reevaluate your spending habits during or ahead of a financial emergency to make sure you’re spending your money in the most strategic way possible. In John’s case, he should reevaluate his spending habits to make sure he can cover his basic needs and his upcoming bill. Increasing nonessential expenses is the opposite of what John should do. Decreasing essential expenses may not be feasible—they’re essential for a reason. Earning more money is not a viable option for John, as this is likely up to his employer, not him. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: Egan, J. (2021, March 16). How to change your budget in a financial emergency. Retrieved February
5, 2024, from https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-adjust-your-budget-for-afinancial-emergency/ 2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 3 

9. Carla is grocery shopping for the week, picking up ingredients for her carefully planned meals. She intends to make a casserole for dinner, but as she walks past the “Grab & Go” section of the store, her stomach rumbles when she smells the ready-made pizza. She impulsively decides to buy a pizza for dinner instead. This is an example of a purchasing decision influenced by 
A. past experience.
B. physical condition.
C. social responsibility.
D. emotional state.

9. B
Physical condition. It’s important to consider your physical condition when you are making decisions—especially important ones. When people are sick, tired, or hungry, they often make impulsive decisions because they don’t have the energy or willpower to think carefully or logically. In Carla’s case, she let her hunger influence her purchasing decision, choosing to buy a pizza impulsively instead of following her original dinner plan. Emotional state, past experience, and a feeling of social responsibility can all influence purchase decisions, but they are not demonstrated in this example. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-EI-091—Worth the Risk (Assessing Risks of Personal Decisions)

17. When inflation occurs, the __________ of consumers is reduced. 
A. retirement contributions
B. decision-making abilities
C. interest rates
D. purchasing power

17. D
Purchasing power. A steady rise in the general price levels of goods and services over time is known as inflation. When inflation occurs, the purchasing power of the dollar is reduced. In other words, your money won’t buy as much tomorrow as it will today. Inflation does not necessarily lead to reduced retirement contributions, decision-making abilities, or interest rates. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-EC-083—Up, Up, and Away (Inflation)

25. To make an informed consumer decision, you should conduct research and consult __________ sources of information. 
A. professional
B. persuasive
C. reliable
D. digital

25. C
Reliable. If you need more information to make an informed consumer decision, conduct some research. Review reliable sources of information. If you are buying a new computer, for instance, Dell’s online store and the Apple store can both provide detailed information about their products. However, other sources that evaluate both types of products, such as a consumer guide, may offer more unbiased reviews. Professional and persuasive sources of information are not always unbiased. Solid sources of information do not always have to be digital—it’s also a good idea to consult with other people who have knowledge or experience. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-EI-091—Worth the Risk (Assessing Risks of Personal Decisions)
2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 7 

35. Pre-purchase research can help limit impulse buying because it places you in a(n) __________ rather than __________ state. 
A. decisive; indecisive
B. emotional; logical
C. indecisive; decisive
D. logical; emotional

35. D
Logical; emotional. Impulse buying involves making an on-the-spot purchasing decision. Impulse buying often results from your physical and emotional condition. When people are sick, tired, or hungry, they often make impulsive, emotional decisions because they don’t have the willpower or energy to think carefully or logically. Conducting research before making a purchase can help you think logically and make a purchasing decision that makes most sense for you, rather than one based on emotion. Research does not necessarily make you more or less decisive. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: Capital One. (2023, October 17). Impulse buying: What it is and how to avoid it. Retrieved February
5, 2023, from https://www.capitalone.com/learn-grow/money-management/impulse-buying/ 

39. When donating to charity, it’s important to visit each organization’s website. The organization should demonstrate __________ by providing information about its mission, financials, and impact. 
A. transparency
B. fairness
C. respect
D. pride

39. A
Transparency. One of the first steps of charitable giving is to conduct research on the intended organization. Part of this research should involve visiting the organization’s website to make sure you’re making the impact you intend to. Reputable organizations should be transparent—the quality of being trustworthy and just as one seems—by providing information about their mission, values, financials, programs, impact, and more. Respect involves honoring the rights, freedoms, views, and property of others. Fairness is the ability to make judgments and act without favoritism or self-interest. Pride is a feeling of satisfaction from one’s own accomplishments. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: Saint Paul & Minnesota Foundation. (2024). Five tips for researching nonprofit organizations to
support. Retrieved February 5, 2024, from https://spmcf.org/blog/nonprofit-giving-research-tips 

50. Having a system for financial record-keeping makes it easier to make financial decisions because 
A. you can access needed information quickly and easily.
B. it helps you memorize all of your financial data.
C. you can automatically share your information with others.
D. it is required by both state and federal law.

50. A
You can access needed information quickly and easily. Having a system for financial record-keeping can make it easier to make financial decisions because you can access needed information quickly and easily. Financial decision-making often requires a thorough knowledge of your current (and past) financial state. Being able to access whatever information you need quickly and easily is crucial to making a smart financial decision. A financial record-keeping system does not necessarily help you memorize financial data or automatically share info with others (nor would these actions be helpful for decision-making). A system of financial record-keeping is not required by state or federal law. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: Love, C. (2021). Maintaining your financial records: The importance of being organized. Retrieved
February 5, 2024, from https://www.cnbank.com/Your_Bank/Education_and_Advice/CNBU_Articles/ Maintaining_Your_Financial_Records__The_Importance_of_Being_Organized/ 2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 13 

64. Which of the following is a fixed expense: 
A. Weekly groceries
B. Monthly rent
C. Car repair bill
D. Annual salary

64. B
Monthly rent. Budgets often include both fixed and variable expenses. Fixed expenses are those that remain constant (i.e., “fixed”) over time and do not fluctuate. Examples of fixed expenses include a monthly rent or mortgage, car payments, phone bills, and gym memberships. Variable expenses are the opposite—they can fluctuate (i.e., “vary”) regularly. Examples of variable expenses include what you spend on car repairs or weekly groceries. An annual salary is not an expense. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: Bennet, K. (2023, November 3). What’s the difference between fixed and variable expenses?
Retrieved February 5, 2024, from https://www.bankrate.com/banking/fixed-expenses-vs-variableexpenses/ 

71. Which of the following occurs when consumer demand and ability to buy is greater than supply, causing prices of goods and services to increase: 
A. Demand-pull inflation
B. Hyperinflation
C. Inflation targeting
D. Cost-push inflation

71. A
Demand-pull inflation. The popular view among economists is that inflation happens when the country’s overall money supply grows faster than the economy does. When the availability of money is too great, it creates a situation that economists refer to as “too much cash chasing too few goods.” Consumer demand (and ability to buy) is greater than supply, so prices go up. This situation is known as demand-pull inflation. Cost-push inflation occurs when commodities are limited, causing products to be more expensive to make (i.e., costs “push” inflation higher). Inflation targeting is when a government decides to pursue a specific inflation rate. Hyperinflation is high and/or unexpected inflation. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: LAP-EC-083—Up, Up, and Away (Inflation)
2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 18 

74. When purchasing a durable good, consumers typically consider 
A. whether they can get a discount.
B. how appealing the product appears.
C. whether their neighbors own the product.
D. how long the product will last.

74. D
How long the product will last. Durable goods are tangible items that should last a long time, such as cars, furniture, appliances, lawn equipment, etc. When purchasing a durable good, consumers typically consider how long the product will last. Typically, durable goods are designed to last at least 3 years. While consumers can make purchasing decisions based on the appeal of the product, whether their neighbors own the product, or whether they can get a discount, these are not typically factors influencing the purchase of durable goods. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: Lisa, A. (2021, August 4). Durable goods spending and what it means for the economy. Retrieved
February 5, 2024, from https://www.gobankingrates.com/money/economy/economy-explained-whatis-durable-goods-spending-what-does-it-signify/ 

78. Many people donate to charity because it gives them a sense of 
A. accomplishment.
B. community.
C. superiority.
D. financial security.

78. B
Community. There are many reasons people donate to charity. One reason is because charitable giving provides them with a sense of community, or belonging, by being an active participant of society. It helps them feel connected—not superior—to those around them. While charitable giving is a worthy accomplishment, people don’t typically donate to charity just because it gives them a sense of accomplishment. People don’t donate to charity because it gives them a sense of financial security; instead, people experiencing financial security then decide to donate to charity. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: NSPCC. (2024). 10 reasons you should give to charity. Retrieved February 5, 2024, from
https://www.nspcc.org.uk/support-us/why-give-to-charity/ 

84. Which of the following is a short-term financial goal: 
A. Paying for a child’s education
B. Saving for retirement
C. Buying a vacation home
D. Paying off a credit card balance

84. D
Paying off a credit card balance. People budget for both short- and long-term financial goals. Short-term financial goals are those someone might be able to achieve within a year, such as paying off a credit card balance or establishing an emergency fund. Long-term financial goals are those that often take many years— even decades. Long-term goals include saving for retirement, paying for a child’s education, or buying a vacation home. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: Citizens. (2024). How to plan for short- and long-term saving goals. Retrieved February 5, 2024,
from https://www.citizensbank.com/learning/planning-for-short-term-and-long-term-goals.aspx 

97. While Vivienne could track her spending habits with pen and paper, she prefers to use a budgeting app because it 
A. automates her calculations.
B. cancels her transactions.
C. submits her annual taxes.
D. earns her a commission.

97. A
Automates her calculations. There are many ways Vivienne could track her spending habits: pen and paper, a budgeting app, or a spreadsheet. A budgeting app provides many advantages, including automatically making budgetary calculations. For example, if Vivienne were to include all her weekly expenditures, the app could automatically add up these expenses and provide a sum. A budgeting app does not submit taxes, earn users a commission, or cancel transactions. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: Better Money Habits. (2024). Creating a budget. Retrieved February 5, 2024, from
https://bettermoneyhabits.bankofamerica.com/en/saving-budgeting/creating-a-budget 2024 HS ICDC PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY—KEY 24 

10. Which of the following is a common money-management mistake young adults make: 
A. Focusing on needs rather than wants
B. Giving in to peer pressure when spending
C. Using student loan refunds to purchase needs
D. Investing in the stock market

10. B
Giving in to peer pressure when spending. A common money-management mistake young adults make is giving in to peer pressure. Peer pressure is something that almost every young adult will face, but they need to understand that it is OK to say "no." If your friends want to go out to eat, go on a trip, or see a movie but you don't have enough money to responsibly participate, you don't need to give in to peer pressure. Young adults need to set financial goals and concentrate on what they really want out of their lives to help them avoid overspending. Focusing on needs rather than wants, using student loan refunds to purchase needs, and investing in the stock market are not common mistakes young adults make. In fact, focusing on needs rather than wants is something young adults should do, as is spending any student loan refunds on needs. By focusing on needs such as groceries, rent, utilities, etc., you won't be overspending on wants. Investing in the stock market isn't a common mistake, as investing early and often can help you build wealth through your investments. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: Fontinelle, A. (2023, March 15). The biggest financial hurdles young people face. Retrieved October 25,
2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/financial-edge/0712/the-biggest-financial-hurdles-youngpeople-face.aspx 

20. A good way to prioritize your financial goals is to 
A. recognize that all the goals are equally important.
B. rank goals according to what needs to be done first.
C. rank every goal in numerical order.
D. assign each goal to a general category.

20. D
Assign each goal to a general category. A good way to prioritize your financial goals is to assign each goal to a general category such as "must do," "important but not critical," or "not so important." Ranking according to what needs to be done first and ranking every goal in numerical order are two common pitfalls. Another pitfall is ranking everything as very important or thinking that all the goals are equally important. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 8
SOURCE: Campbell, J. (2018, December 3). How to set and keep personal financial goals. Retrieved October 24,
2023, from https://www.moneymanagement.org/blog/how-to-set-and-keep-personal-financial-goals 

28. It is easier to budget for __________ than it is to budget for __________. 
A. transportation; utilities
B. expenses; income
C. variable expenses; fixed expenses
D. fixed expenses; variable expenses

28. D
Fixed expenses; variable expenses. Fixed expenses are expenses that stay the same each month and cannot be easily changed. They are easier to estimate than variable expenses, which are daily spending decisions that change in amount month by month. Expenses are not necessarily easier to budget than income. Transportation is not necessarily easier to budget than utilities. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: Pant, P. (2022, July 31). What's the difference between fixed and variable expenses? Retrieved
October 24, 2023, from https://www.thebalancemoney.com/what-s-the-difference-between-fixed-andvariable-expenses-453774 

29. Trey has determined he would like to start saving $200 each month for college expenses. What is the next step he should take when creating his personal budget? 
A. Identify cash inflows and outflows
B. Determine his personal net worth
C. Identify liquid assets
D. Determine net cash flow

29. A
Identify cash inflows and outflows. Determining the inflow and outflow of cash helps a person understand how much they earn and spend each month. Identifying these cash inflows and outflows is the most significant step in creating a personal budget. Net cash flow cannot be determined until all cash inflows and outflows in the budget are identified. Liquid assets are items an individual owns that can easily be turned into cash, but they are not typically considered when developing a budget. A person's net worth is the combination of their assets and their liabilities and is also not typically considered when developing a budget. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 8
SOURCE: Mapping Your Future. (2023). Start budgeting. Retrieved October 24, 2023, from
https://mappingyourfuture.org/money/budget.cfm 

32. Karen enjoys spending money when she goes out with her friends, but recently she has decided to decrease her spending in order to save money for concert tickets. Karen's friends want to hang out this Saturday. Which of the following activities should Karen suggest so she can stay focused on her financial goal: 
A. See the newest action movie
B. Shop for discount books
C. Play basketball in the park
D. Eat dinner at the mall food court

32. C
Play basketball in the park. Because Karen's goal is to buy concert tickets, she needs to save money to put toward those tickets. To save money, Karen needs to decrease her spending. Playing basketball in the park is a free activity. Seeing a movie at the cinema, eating dinner at a restaurant in the food court, and shopping for books (even if discounted), are all activities that cost money. Thus, to spend the least amount of money when she sees her friends this weekend, Karen should play in the park. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 8
SOURCE: Fontinelle, A. (2021, July 31). Why saving money is important. Retrieved October 24, 2023, from
https://www.investopedia.com/articles/personal-finance/031215/why-saving-money-important.asp 

33. How do spending levels change during an inflationary period? 
A. Consumers keep spending no matter what; businesses are more cautious.
B. Consumers and businesses spend less.
C. Overall spending generally remains unchanged.
D. Consumers spend less, but businesses tend to spend more.

33. B
Consumers and businesses spend less. When inflation sets in and prices rise, consumers change their spending habits, which is disruptive to the economy. Depending on the degree of inflation, consumer spending can fall dramatically, especially on larger purchases such as homes. The housing industry has been hard-hit during inflationary periods. Businesses also adjust their spending habits, and when interest rates on business loans are high, for example, they may cut back on factory orders to reduce the cost of borrowing. A decline in orders often causes factory layoffs. Changes in spending habits cause ripple effects and can have a dramatic impact on the economy. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: Oner, C. (n.d.). Inflation: Prices on the rise. Retrieved October 23, 2023, from
https://www.imf.org/en/Publications/fandd/issues/Series/Back-to-Basics/Inflation 

45. Which of the following financial goals is most appropriate for a person following a planned budget: 
A. Save a set amount and meet all expenses each month.
B. Save any extra money to pay for rent each month.
C. Find a job that provides a much larger income.
D. Pay for all expenses and save any amount left over.

45. A
Save a set amount and meet all expenses each month. A person who sets a financial goal of saving a set amount and meeting all expenses each month is most likely to be following a planned budget. Saving what is left over at the end of the month shows a lack of financial management and usually results in no savings. Rent payments should be budgeted and paid using monthly income, not with extra money found. Finding a job with a larger income is a good personal goal, but it is not part of following a budget. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 8
SOURCE: Mapping Your Future. (2023). Start budgeting. Retrieved October 24, 2023, from
https://mappingyourfuture.org/money/budget.cfm 

64. Generally, price inflation means that people 
A. can afford fewer goods.
B. make more money.
C. can afford more goods.
D. make less money.

64. A
Can afford fewer goods. Inflation is an increase in the cost of goods and services. If the prices of these goods and services go up, then people are able to buy fewer of them with their limited wages. Price deflation, which involves prices for goods and services decreasing, means people can purchase more with their wages. The change in price does not mean there is a change in wages. Wage inflation and deflation affects the amount of money people have to spend. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: McBride, C. (2019, January 11). How does inflation effect the purchasing power of money? Retrieved
October 23, 2023, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/inflation-effect-purchasing-power-money696.html 

66. Which of the following is a tool that often helps individuals organize and manage their mortgage, utility, and insurance bills: 
A. Scatter chart
B. Credit report
C. Monthly payment schedule
D. Daily work calendar

66. C
Monthly payment schedule. Developing a monthly payment schedule can help individuals organize, manage, and pay their bills on time. Computer spreadsheets, schedule templates, and calendars are several effective ways to manage the bill-paying process. Regardless of the format used, individuals should note the payee's name, amount due, due date, date paid, and the method of payment. If writing a check, the check number should also be noted on the payment schedule. Individuals do not organize and manage their bills by using a scatter chart, work calendar, or credit report. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 8
SOURCE: Haagensen, E. (2021, September 30). Procrastinator's guide to bill payment. Retrieved October 24,
2023, https://www.investopedia.com/articles/pf/08/stop-paying-bills-late.asp 

67. Which of the following is a benefit of using a debit card instead of a credit card: 
A. There is no risk of going into debt.
B. You can spend more money at a time.
C. Expenses can be paid at a later date.
D. You can build your financial rating.

67. A
There is no risk of going into debt. Debit cards withdraw money from your account in real time, so you will be cut off and notified if you spend too much. The most you will pay is an overdraft fee. In contrast, credit cards allow you to borrow money and pay it back later, with interest. You can spend more than you actually have, which results in debt. Credit cards, rather than debit cards, allow you to build your credit score to prove your financial stability to future employers and landlords. Debit cards do not allow you to pay expenses at a later date or to spend more money at a time than credit cards. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 8
SOURCE: Burnette, M. (2023, September 19). What is a debit card and how does it work? Retrieved October 23,
2023, from https://www.nerdwallet.com/article/banking/what-is-a-debit-card 

75. The single most important aspect of making a financial plan and setting goals is 
A. learning to make hard choices.
B. making enough money.
C. getting started now.
D. choosing a career path.

75. C
Getting started now. The single most important aspect of making a financial plan and setting goals is getting started now. Learning to make hard choices, making enough money, and choosing a career path are important aspects of goal setting, but they are not as important as simply getting started. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 8
SOURCE: Marquit, M. (2023, March 3). Financial goals for students: How and why to set them. Retrieved October
24, 2023, from https://www.investopedia.com/financial-goals-for-students-7151682 

81. What is a major goal of the Federal Trade Commission? 
A. To improve product quality
B. To monitor product safety
C. To lower prices
D. To protect consumers

81. D
To protect consumers. A major goal of the Federal Trade Commission is to protect consumers by helping them to make good buying decisions. The FTC enforces laws regulating advertising activities, sales and credit practices, marketing practices, and warranty practices. The Consumer Product Safety Commission monitors product safety. Businesses raise or lower prices and improve product quality without government intervention. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: Federal Trade Commission. (2023). Bureau of Consumer Protection. Retrieved October 25, 2023, from
https://www.ftc.gov/about-ftc/bureaus-offices/bureau-consumer-protection 

93. Which of the following is an advantage of buying versus renting a home: 
A. Responsibility for maintenance and repairs
B. No need to worry about property tax
C. Fewer upfront costs and less paperwork
D. Potential to build equity and credit

93. D
Potential to build equity and credit. When you buy a home, you are making a long-term investment that can help you build a solid credit score. A high credit score can help you get approved for lower-interest loans and credit cards because it is an indicator to lenders that you are financially responsible. Other advantages of buying versus renting include greater stability, control over your own property, and possible tax benefits. However, buying a home also requires more money upfront than renting—and you could lose money over time if the value of your home declines. You are also responsible for maintenance and repairs when you own your home, which can be time-consuming and expensive. Owning a home also means that you must pay property taxes, which renters do not need to worry about. Benefits of renting include fewer upfront costs, less paperwork, maintenance and repairs included in rent, and no property taxes. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: Franklin, J.B. (2022, July 25). Renting vs. buying a home: Which is right for you? Retrieved October 25,
2023, from https://www.bankrate.com/real-estate/renting-vs-buying-a-home/ PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM—KEY 22 

98. In which of the following situations would consumers' purchasing power decrease: 
A. Interest rates decrease from 8% to 7%.
B. Pay raise is 5% and inflation rate is 6%.
C. Federal income-tax rates decrease by 0.5%.
D. Take-home pay remains at a constant level.

98. B
Pay raise is 5% and inflation rate is 6%. When the inflation rate is higher than the percent of raise that employees receive, the purchasing power of those employees decreases. This has a negative effect on the economy because the higher inflation rate means higher prices for goods and services. Although the employees received a raise, the raise was not equal to the rate of inflation so employees actually lost purchasing power. They have more money to spend, but the goods and services they want cost more than their pay increase. When interest rates decrease, consumers' purchasing power usually increases. Consumers' purchasing power does not change if their takehome pay remains at a constant level and all other variables remain the same. A decrease in federal income-tax rates usually increases consumers' purchasing power. 
SOURCE: Spending Grade 12
SOURCE: McEachern, W.A. (2018). Contemporary economics (4th ed.) [Lesson 15.2.2]. Boston, MA: Cengage
Learning, Inc. 

