31. Identifying goals, deciding what work will be done, and setting due dates is part of the __________ management function. 
A. directing
B. controlling
C. staffing
D. planning

31. D
Planning. Planning involves deciding what work will be done and how it will be accomplished. First, managers identify goals. Then, they identify methods of achieving those goals and the resources required to carry out the plans. They also set dates for completing tasks and projects. As the manager of an ice-cream shop, for instance, you might set a goal of increasing sales. You might then decide to increase advertising to help achieve that goal. Planning is important because it lays the groundwork for all of the other management functions. Organizing, staffing, directing, and controlling decisions are based on the plans the business has established. 
SOURCE: SM:001 Explain the concept of management
SOURCE: LAP-SM-001—Manage This! (Concept of Management)

2. Which of the following statements is true about the directing function of management: 
A. It uses standardized communication.
B. It is results driven rather than performance driven.
C. It is a continuous process.
D. It primarily occurs at the lowest level of the organization.

2. C
It is a continuous process. Directing is the management function of providing guidance to workers and work projects. To varying degrees, managers need to guide their employees' work activities on an ongoing basis; therefore, directing is a continuous process. Employees' personalities and needs vary, so managers often use different communication styles to guide and motivate them. Directing occurs at all levels of an organization and is a performance-driven function that managers use to obtain the desired results or goals. 
SOURCE: SM:066 Discuss managerial considerations in directing
SOURCE: Samiksha, S. (n.d.). 6 important features/characteristics of directing function | Organization
management. Retrieved August 4, 2023, from https://www.yourarticlelibrary.com/organization/6important-featurescharacteristics-of-directing-function-organization-management/8670 

25. What function of management establishes a company's levels of authority? 
A. Organizing
B. Evaluating
C. Controlling
D. Staffing

25. A
Organizing. Organizing is the management function of setting up the way the business's work will be done. A primary organizing activity is establishing levels of authority. Staffing is the management function of finding workers for the company. Controlling is the management function that monitors the work effort. Evaluating is a controlling activity. 
SOURCE: SM:064 Explain managerial considerations in organizing
SOURCE: Juneja, P. (2023). Importance of organizing function. Retrieved August 4, 2023, from
https://www.managementstudyguide.com/organizing_importance.htm 

28. Managers need to be familiar with the latest technology, government regulations, innovations and trends within the industry, and competitors' activities. What category of resource is this? 
A. Financial
B. Information
C. Material
D. Human

28. B
Information. Information resources are made up of knowledge, facts, or data. All forms of information are an important resource for a business. Human resources are people who work to produce goods and services. Material resources are equipment and suppliers used by businesses in their operation. Financial resources are all the sources of money available to the business. 
SOURCE: SM:001 Explain the concept of management
SOURCE: LAP-SM-001—Manage This! (Concept of Management)
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 7 

34. Which of the following demonstrates business innovation: 
A. Luis reviews marketing campaign results.
B. Tessa introduces more sustainable packaging.
C. Myesha attends a creative design conference.
D. Xavi listens to a startup business podcast.

34. B
Tessa introduces more sustainable packaging. Businesses must innovate to stay competitive, which includes creating new products or services, improving existing processes, and implementing other methods to increase efficiency and improve the company's bottom line. Tessa is contributing to business innovation by introducing more sustainable packaging. While listening to a podcast, reviewing campaign results, and attending a conference may spark new ideas, they are not direct examples of innovation. 
SOURCE: SM:094 Describe relationship among innovation, learning, and change
SOURCE: Green, N. (2019, October 11). What is business innovation and why is it important? Retrieved
August 4, 2023, from https://www.wework.com/ideas/professional-development/creativityculture/what-is-business-innovation 

52. What is the primary purpose of managerial planning? 
A. To evaluate forecasts
B. To prepare for the future
C. To implement activities
D. To change processes

52. B
To prepare for the future. Planning is the management function of deciding what will be done and how it will be accomplished, which is preparing for the future. Preparing forecasts is an activity that is often performed during the planning process. Implementing activities and changing processes are part of the managerial controlling function. 
SOURCE: SM:063 Discuss the nature of managerial planning
SOURCE: Juneja, P. (2023). Planning function of management. Retrieved August 4, 2023, from
https://www.managementstudyguide.com/planning_function.htm 

70. Andy presents his idea for restructuring his company to the board of directors. In which stage of the changemanagement lifecycle is Andy? 
A. Implementation
B. Close
C. Review and authorize
D. Identify need for change

70. C
Review and authorize. After the need for a change has been identified, it must be reviewed and approved before it can move forward. Andy is allowing the board of directors to review and authorize the change he wants to implement. Andy has already identified the need for change, and he is not yet in the implementation or close phases of the change-management lifecycle. 
SOURCE: SM:096 Explain the change-management lifecycle
SOURCE: Ivanti. (2023). Change management lifecycle model. Retrieved August 4, 2023,
from https://www.ivanti.com/glossary/change-management?cwredirect= 

76. Thomas is reviewing job applications to determine the five most qualified candidates to interview for a sales position. What management activity is Thomas performing? 
A. Orienting
B. Training
C. Screening
D. Innovating

76. C
Screening. Staffing is the management function of finding workers for the business. Staffing is an important function because employees do the work to accomplish the business's goals. Screening is a staffing activity that involves reviewing employment applications to determine which applicants have the skills that best fit the business's needs. Orienting is the process of familiarizing a new employee with the company. Training involves providing information or teaching skills that the employee needs to perform their job. Innovating is the process of generating unique ideas or products. 
SOURCE: SM:065 Describe managerial considerations in staffing
SOURCE: Juneja, P. (2023). Staffing process - Steps involved in staffing. Retrieved August 4, 2023, from
https://www.managementstudyguide.com/staffing-process.htm 

83. Effective change management has benefits on both the organizational and individual levels. A way in which it benefits an individual is that it helps 
A. anticipate challenges and respond efficiently.
B. contain costs associated with change.
C. plan efficient communication strategies.
D. align existing resources within the company.

83. C
Plan efficient communication strategies. Change management is the process of implementing change at any level of a company where it is needed. A way in which effective change management benefits an individual is that it helps plan efficient communication strategies. Other benefits it has on the individual level are increased employee acceptance of change and improved morale, productivity, quality of work, cooperation, and collaboration. Benefits of change management on the organizational level are that it helps align existing resources within the company, contain costs associated with change, and anticipate challenges and respond efficiently. 
SOURCE: SM:095 Explain the nature of change management
SOURCE: Connelly, M. (2008-2023). Benefits of change management. Retrieved August 4, 2023, from
https://www.change-management-coach.com/benefits-of-change-management.html 

1. Johann works for an organization that is broken into traditional departments, each with its own set of responsibilities and activities. What organizational structure does Johann’s company use? 
A. Functional
B. Divisional
C. Specialty
D. Matrix

1. A
Functional. Functional structure is an organizational design in which the business is broken into traditional departments, each with its own set of responsibilities and activities (marketing, operations, sales, IT, etc.). Because Johann’s company is broken into traditional departments, it uses a functional structure. A divisional structure is an organizational design in which the business is broken down into units according to factors such as product, process, territory, customer type, etc. A matrix structure is an organizational design that combines the traditional functional structure with the divisional structure. Specialty structure is a fictitious term. 
SOURCE: SM:064 Explain managerial considerations in organizing
SOURCE: LAP-SM-064—Put It All Together (Managerial Organizing)

30. Ophelia works for a large company with four divisions: Northeast, South, Midwest, and West. What organizational structure is Ophelia’s company most likely to use? 
A. Functional
B. Matrix
C. Specialty
D. Divisional

30. D
Divisional. A divisional structure is an organizational design in which the business is broken down into units according to factors such as product, process, territory, customer type, etc. Because Ophelia’s company is divided according to territory, it most likely uses a divisional structure. Functional structure is an organizational design in which the business is broken into traditional departments, each with its own set of responsibilities and activities (marketing, operations, sales, IT, etc.). A matrix structure is an organizational design that combines the traditional functional structure with the divisional structure. Specialty structure is a fictitious term. 
SOURCE: SM:064 Explain managerial considerations in organizing
SOURCE: LAP-SM-064—Put It All Together (Managerial Organizing)

39. The change management process can involve different types and levels of change. Large, often dramatic changes—such as deciding to expand the business internationally—are often called __________ changes. 
A. adaptive
B. personnel
C. creative
D. transformational

39. D
Transformational. Change management is the process of guiding an organization through a change, including those made to company cultures, procedures, technology, infrastructure, etc. Large, often dramatic changes— such as deciding to expand the business internationally or launching a new product—are often called transformational changes. Adaptive changes are typically smaller incremental changes that evolve over time. “Personnel” refers to employees, which are not necessarily related to large and dramatic changes. “Creative changes” isn’t a term recognized in change management. 
SOURCE: SM:096 Explain the change-management lifecycle
SOURCE: Miller, K. (2020, March 19). 5 critical steps in the change management process. Retrieved
September 29, 2023, from https://online.hbs.edu/blog/post/change-management-process 

58. Kelsey is collaborating with her team to develop a new work-from-home policy in the hopes it will attract more job applicants. To best implement this new policy, Kelsey should work through the steps of a __________ management plan. 
A. change
B. crisis
C. customer relationship
D. channel

58. A
Change. Change management is the process of guiding an organization through a change, including those made to company cultures, procedures, technology, infrastructure, etc. Because Kelsey is working to implement a new policy—which would be a significant change for the organization—she should work through the steps of a change management plan. Channel management includes processes by which marketers ensure products are distributed to customers efficiently and effectively. Crisis management is a public relations strategy that involves the ongoing management, planning, and coordination of resources in the event undesirable circumstances occur. Customer relationship management includes the strategies, processes, technology, and people a business uses to build, maintain, and maximize the long-term value of customer relationships. 
SOURCE: SM:095 Explain the nature of change management
SOURCE: Miller, K. (2020, March 19). 5 critical steps in the change management process. Retrieved
September 29, 2023, from https://online.hbs.edu/blog/post/change-management-process 

63. Unlike other managerial functions, staffing is a(n) __________ activity—it’s happening across the business, all the time. 
A. risky
B. emotional
C. technological
D. continuous

63. D
Continuous. Though each business is unique, there are certain staffing tasks that every organization undertakes. Unlike organizing (another managerial function), staffing is a continuous activity—it’s happening across the business, all the time. Organizing lays the foundation for staffing, but staffing is what gets employees in the door and in the right job positions. Staffing is not necessarily a technological, emotional, or risky activity. 
SOURCE: SM:065 Describe managerial considerations in staffing
SOURCE: LAP-SM-065—Dream Team Maker (Staffing)

67. As a manager, April makes sure to recognize the efforts of each employee on her team so they keep up the good work. This is an example of 
A. planning.
B. instructing.
C. delegating.
D. motivating.

67. D
Motivating. Motivation is the process of getting employees to strive to achieve management’s objectives because they want to achieve them. In an ideal world, employees would want to reach the company’s goals just out of the goodness of their hearts—but that’s not how people are. In the workplace, motivation keeps employees working hard and putting forth as much effort as they can to achieve their own goals. This is not an example of instructing, planning, or delegating. 
SOURCE: SM:066 Discuss managerial considerations in directing
SOURCE: LAP-SM-066—Take Action (Managerial Directing)

76. Which of the following is a planning activity: 
A. Determining tasks
B. Interviewing applicants
C. Instructing employees
D. Establishing goals

76. D
Establishing goals. Planning is the management function of deciding what will be done and how it will be accomplished, which includes establishing goals and making decisions about business objectives. Determining tasks is an organizing activity. Interviewing applicants is a staffing activity. Instructing employees is a directing activity. 
SOURCE: SM:063 Discuss the nature of managerial planning
SOURCE: Brigden, B. (2023, May 26). The four functions of management: Overview + examples. Retrieved
October 4, 2023, from https://www.teamwork.com/blog/the-four-functions-of-management-overviewexamples/ 

78. Which of the following steps in the change management process should happen first: 
A. Prepare the organization for change
B. Review progress and analyze results
C. Develop a plan for change
D. Implement the changes

78. A
Prepare the organization for change. Change management is the process of guiding an organization through a change, including those made to company cultures, procedures, technology, infrastructure, etc. Before any change can take place, it is important to prepare the organization—both logistically and culturally—for change. Developing a plan for change, implementing the changes, and review progress and analyzing results are important steps in the change management process, but they should be done after preparing the organization for change. 
SOURCE: SM:096 Explain the change-management lifecycle
SOURCE: Miller, K. (2020, March 19). 5 critical steps in the change management process. Retrieved
September 29, 2023, from https://online.hbs.edu/blog/post/change-management-process 

80. As a manager, Alicia sets rules for how employees are supposed to clock in and out of a shift. She’s hoping this __________ control will help prevent any issues with time-tracking from occurring. 
A. feedforward
B. concurrent
C. vertical
D. feedback

80. A
Feedforward. Feedforward controls are those that attempt to monitor and control performance before it occurs. For example, if a manager sets rules for how employees are supposed to clock in and out of a shift, this feedforward control is meant to prevent any issues with time-tracking from occurring in the first place. Concurrent controls are those that monitor and control performance while it is occurring. Feedback controls are those that monitor and control performance after it has already occurred. Vertical control is not a widely acknowledged term in business. 
SOURCE: SM:004 Describe the nature of managerial control (control process, types of control, what is
controlled) 
SOURCE: LAP-SM-400—Measure Up! (Managerial Control)
2024 HS ICDC BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 19 

1. If a company wants to ensure that changes are implemented in the best possible way and that those changes will lead to long-term benefits, it should use the __________ approach. 
A. problem-solving
B. change-management
C. change-avoidance
D. solution-finding

1. B
Change-management. The change-management approach ensures that changes are implemented in the best possible way and that those changes will lead to long-term benefits. Change management is not referred to as problem-solving, change avoidance, or solution finding. 
SOURCE: SM:095 Explain the nature of change management
SOURCE: MindTools. (2023). The four principles of change management. Retrieved September 22, 2023, from
https://www.mindtools.com/pages/article/newPPM_87.htm 

21. A small organization might need a(n) __________, whereas a large company might need a __________. 
A. narrow span of control; wide span of control
B. unified chain of command; scalar chain of command
C. specialized work force; divided labor force
D. informal organizational structure; formalized, complex structure

21. D
Informal organizational structure; formalized, complex structure. The size of the organization impacts decisionmaking in regard to organizing. Larger companies tend to have more complicated structures and need more formalized organization. On the other hand, smaller companies might not need a complex, structured organizational process. The size of the organization is not necessarily related to the span of control; additionally, a small organization could be more likely to have a wide span of control than a narrow span of control. Specialization and the division of labor are not necessarily related to the size of the organization. All organizations’ chains of command should have the principle of the unity of command and the scalar principle, regardless of size. 
SOURCE: SM:064 Explain managerial considerations in organizing
SOURCE: LAP-SM-064—Put It All Together (Managerial Considerations in Organizing)

35. After a power outage, the point-of-sale software at Leif's Fine Treats malfunctions, meaning the store is unable to complete any customer purchases. What type of planning would be most effective in this situation? 
A. Operational
B. Tactical
C. Strategic
D. Contingency

35. D
Contingency. Contingency planning includes backup plans and crisis responses for a variety of scenarios. A contingency plan would help Leif's Fine Treats determine the best way to proceed. Tactical planning involves specific, measurable, short-term goals. A strategic plan looks at the big picture and defines a company's overall goals. Operational plans are used to document processes on a day-to-day basis. 
SOURCE: SM:063 Discuss the nature of managerial planning
SOURCE: Pingboard. (2020, April 27). Organizational planning guide: Types of plans, steps, and examples.
Retrieved September 22, 2023, from https://pingboard.com/blog/organizational-planning-guidetypes-of-plans-steps-and-examples/ 

37. One way that managers can motivate employees to be more productive is by 
A. finding ways to standardize tasks.
B. considering employees' suggestions.
C. developing automated systems.
D. offering inflexible working hours.

37. B
Considering employees' suggestions. Enthusiastic, motivated workers are much more productive than disinterested, unmotivated ones. Managers can help motivate employees by giving serious consideration to employees' ideas or suggestions. Employees who feel that their suggestions for improvement or change will be taken seriously and implemented, if possible, usually are motivated to perform well and be productive because they feel that the business appreciates them. Some businesses develop automated systems and find ways to standardize tasks to increase productivity, but these factors are not related to motivating employees. Offering inflexible working hours is not likely to motivate employees. 
SOURCE: SM:064 Explain managerial considerations in organizing
SOURCE: Norman, L. (2019, January 28). What are the four basic functions that make up the management
process? Retrieved September 22, 2023, from http://smallbusiness.chron.com/four-basic-functionsmake-up-management-process-23852.html 

60. An assistant bank manager overhears one of their tellers incorrectly quote a savings-account interest rate to a potential customer. Rather than waiting until later to address the problem, the manager corrects the teller immediately and makes sure the teller gives the customer the correct information. Which of the following controls is taking place: 
A. Feedback control
B. Preventive control
C. Concurrent control
D. Post control

60. C
Concurrent control. Concurrent controls monitor business activities as they are being performed. The assistant bank manager watched and listened to their tellers carrying out their jobs, realized that there was a problem, and immediately corrected the problem. Preventive controls take place before a business activity takes place, while feedback controls occur after a business activity has been completed. Post controls, more commonly referred to as postcontrols, are feedback controls. 
SOURCE: SM:004 Describe the nature of managerial control (control process, types of control, what is
controlled) 
SOURCE: Palmer, J. (2019, June 6). Examples of control methods in management. Retrieved September 22,
2023, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/examples-concurrent-control-management-80471.html 

68. For successful innovation in the workplace, employees should have a desire to learn and be willing to 
A. suppress ideas.
B. follow procedures.
C. exhibit bias.
D. accept change.

68. D
Accept change. Innovation is the process of creating new or more effective products, processes, services, technologies, or ideas. Creating something new requires change. When a business encourages its employees to learn about new processes, customer wants, market needs, and trends, innovation is more likely to occur. Exhibiting bias and suppressing ideas may have a negative effect on innovation. Following certain types of business procedures is important for creating a safe and fair work environment and does not necessarily affect innovative processes. 
SOURCE: SM:094 Describe relationship among innovation, learning, and change
SOURCE: Green, N. (2021, July 14). How to encourage innovation in the workplace. Retrieved September 22,
2023, from https://www.wework.com/ideas/professional-development/creativity-culture/how-toencourage-innovation-in-the-workplace 

83. Which of the following is an effect of overstaffing: 
A. Exhausted workers
B. Poor customer service
C. Low morale
D. Inefficiency

83. D
Inefficiency. When a business is overstaffed, it's wasting money on unnecessary wages, benefits, training, etc. It's inefficient and will begin to lose competitiveness. Understaffing creates poor customer service, exhausted workers, and low morale. 
SOURCE: SM:065 Describe managerial considerations in staffing
SOURCE: LAP-SM-065—Dream Team Maker (Staffing)

89. Which of the following statements best describes the relationship between people and change management: 
A. Good employees do as they are told.
B. People embrace change automatically.
C. Change happens one person at a time.
D. Rapid changes boost employee morale.

89. C
Change happens one person at a time. Change management is necessary because organizational change occurs on a person-by-person basis. The people at the organization make changes, not the organization itself. Successful organizational change is the cumulative result of individual actions. Employees may be instructed to do something illegal or unethical, in which case they would not follow those directions. Rapid changes would lower employee morale. People do not embrace change automatically—in fact, they often resist change at first. 
SOURCE: SM:096 Explain the change-management lifecycle
SOURCE: Prosci. (2020). What is change management and how does it work? Retrieved September 22, 2023,
from https://www.prosci.com/resources/articles/what-is-change-management-and-how-does-it-work BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 22 

90. When a manager is directing, they are 
A. setting goals.
B. initiating action.
C. evaluating feedback.
D. identifying resources.

90. B
Initiating action. The directing function of management is the process of providing guidance to workers as they work. When a manager is directing, they are initiating action to get the work done. Setting goals occurs during the planning function. Identifying resources is part of the planning function. Evaluating feedback is a part of the control function. 
SOURCE: SM:066 Discuss managerial considerations in directing
SOURCE: LAP-SM-066—Take Action (Managerial Considerations in Directing)

14. Key performance indicators used to assess business performance should align with the business's 
A. corporate culture.
B. payroll and benefits.
C. operating expenses.
D. goals and objectives.

14. D
Goals and objectives. A common way to assess the performance of a business plan is to develop and use key performance indicators. Key performance indicators are an effective way to track, measure, and improve business results. Aligning key performance indicators with business goals and objectives can help an organization stay focused on the aspects of the business that are most important to it. Key performance indicators are not necessarily aligned with a business's operating expenses, corporate culture, or payroll and benefits. 
SOURCE: SM:006 Track performance of business plan
SOURCE: Twin, A. (2023, May 10). Key performance indicator (KPI). Retrieved August 21, 2023, from
https://www.investopedia.com/terms/k/kpi.asp 

18. When Jackson, a manager at AMO Inc., uses the company car to run personal errands during working hours, he is acting unethically because he is 
A. misusing company resources.
B. violating government policies.
C. harassing other employees.
D. sharing confidential information.

18. A
Misusing company resources. When Jack uses a company resource (e.g., car) for personal reasons during working hours, he is behaving unethically because he is not using the resource for its intended purpose, which is to support the business. There is not enough information in the example to indicate that Jack is harassing other employees, sharing confidential information, or violating government policies. 
SOURCE: SM:002 Explain the nature of managerial ethics
SOURCE: Mintz, S. (2016, November 2). Unethical employee behaviors in the workplace. Retrieved August 11,
2023, from https://www.workplaceethicsadvice.com/2016/11/unethical-employee-behaviors-in-theworkplace.html 

23. When employees are exposed to a variety of different ideas and perspectives, they are more likely to come up with their own new ideas and strategies. In other words, knowledge and learning lead to 
A. leadership.
B. innovation.
C. complacency.
D. curiosity.

23. B
Innovation. Innovation, the creation or discovery of something new, such as a new product, strategy, or process, is closely tied to knowledge and learning. When employees are constantly learning at work, they are more likely to innovate. They are not more likely to become complacent, which means feeling satisfied with less-than-stellar performance. Learning and knowledge may also lead to greater curiosity and leadership, but this example specifically references innovation. 
SOURCE: SM:094 Describe relationship among innovation, learning, and change
SOURCE: Management Study Guide. (n.d.). The new competitive landscape - Role of knowledge, learning and
innovation in organizations. Retrieved August 11, 2023, from https://www.managementstudyguide.com/role-of-knowledge-learning-and-innovation-inorganizations.htm 

24. Melissa has been assigned a unique task at work; her boss wants her to oversee her team's adoption of a new software. They explain that Melissa should make a plan for the integration of the new software, support her teammates in the transition, and ensure that the transition is successful. In other words, Melissa is responsible for 
A. change management.
B. managerial control.
C. human resources management.
D. organizational goal setting.

24. A
Change management. Change management involves overseeing transitions (change) within a company. Some of the activities involved in change management include planning a change, educating team members about the change, supporting the staff throughout the change, and ensuring that the change leads to positive results. In this example, Melissa is responsible for change management, not goal setting, human resources management, or managerial control. Human resources management is the process of planning, staffing, leading, and organizing the employees of the business. Managerial control is a function of management that involves monitoring the work effort in an organization. 
SOURCE: SM:095 Explain the nature of change management
SOURCE: Mind Tools Content Team. (2023). The four principles of change management. Retrieved August 11,
2023, from https://www.mindtools.com/ahpnreq/the-four-principles-of-change-management 

29. Which of the following is a way in which the government supports the growth of business: 
A. Surveys
B. Subsidies
C. Tax increases
D. Tariff reductions

29. B
Subsidies. A subsidy is government financial help given to a business. An example of a business subsidized by the government is mass transit. Tariff reductions would slow the growth of business by allowing more imports to enter the country. Tax increases would also slow business growth by reducing profits. Government surveys provide information which may or may not be useful to businesses. 
SOURCE: SM:011 Explain external planning considerations
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2023, June 12). Subsidies. Retrieved August 31, 2023, from
https://www.investopedia.com/terms/s/subsidy.asp ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 8 

46. How does a business's gross profit compare to the industry standard of 25% if it has annual sales of $500,000 and cost of goods sold is $400,000? 
A. 5% lower
B. 10% lower
C. 5% higher
D. 10% higher

46. A
5% lower. Businesses often compare their income from sales and the cost of buying those goods to the industry standard in order to determine if they are spending too much based on the profit earned. If the industry standard is 25% gross profit, a business wants to make sure that it is earning that amount. To calculate the percentage of gross profit, first subtract the cost of goods sold from annual sales to determine gross profit ($500,000 $400,000 = $100,000). Then, divide that figure by annual sales ($100,000 ÷ $500,000 = .20). Convert that figure to a percentage by multiplying by 100 (.20 X 100 = 20%). In this case, the business is earning 20% gross profit which is 5% lower than the industry standard. 
SOURCE: SM:005 Analyze operating results in relation to budget/industry
SOURCE: Bloomenthal, A. (2023, June 12). Gross profit margin. Retrieved August 11, 2023,
from http://www.investopedia.com/terms/g/gross_profit_margin.asp 

54. The business's manager planned for only a small increase in sales over the next year because the largest local employer had laid off workers and was reducing production. What factor did the manager consider in setting this goal? 
A. Customer service
B. Competition
C. Past sales
D. Economic conditions

54. D
Economic conditions. Businesses take into consideration the economic conditions in the area before setting goals and objectives. If an area is depressed, businesses would anticipate that sales would increase only slightly or not at all. Previous business, competition, and customer service would not be factors in this situation. 
SOURCE: SM:008 Develop company goals/objectives
SOURCE: Reference for Business. (2023). Business planning. Retrieved August 11, 2023,
from http://www.referenceforbusiness.com/small/Bo-Co/Business-Planning.html 

6. When Blend Inc. finalized a merger with a competitor, the company’s leadership hosted a meeting to tell employees how the merger will impact them. This is an example of how 
A. gaining buy-in is an important aspect of change management.
B. change management does not require a leader to be successful.
C. change can negatively affect a company if not managed well.
D. only people at the top of a company are impacted by change.

6. A
Gaining buy-in is an important aspect of change management. When a change occurs, it is important to get everyone involved to buy into it. One way to do this is to tell people how the change will benefit them, as the company’s leadership is doing in this scenario. Change management generally does require a leader to be successful. Changes do not only impact people at the top of a company; they usually impact many or most of the people at a company. Change can negatively affect a company if not managed well, but that is not illustrated in this example. 
SOURCE: SM:095 Explain the nature of change management
SOURCE: Kempton, L. (2023, December 20). Change management process. Retrieved January 11, 2024, from
https://www.prosci.com/blog/change-management-process 

16. Mary, a manager for a clothing outlet store, is deciding what work will be done and how it will be accomplished. What management function is Mary most likely using in this scenario? 
A. Planning
B. Staffing
C. Organizing
D. Directing

16. A
Planning. Planning is the management function of deciding what will be done and how it will be accomplished. In this scenario, Mary is planning because she is deciding what work will be done, determining how it will be accomplished, and laying the groundwork for all of the other management functions. Organizing is the management function of setting up the way the business's work will be done. Staffing is the management function of finding workers for the business. Directing is the management function of providing guidance to workers and work projects to achieve goals. 
SOURCE: SM:001 Explain the concept of management
SOURCE: LAP-SM-001—Manage This! (Concept of Management)
2024 HS ICDC ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 5 

22. Which of the following statements about risk management is true: 
A. It helps businesses be proactive, not reactive.
B. All business risks are speculative risks.
C. Risk offers a possibility of loss, but no gain.
D. It increases uncertainty about the future.

22. A
It helps businesses be proactive, not reactive. A risk is the possibility of loss (failure) or gain (success). Risk management involves the planning, controlling, preventing, and limiting of business losses, as well as enhancing possibilities for gain. Risk management helps a business be proactive (not reactive) in facing risk, and it reduces (not increases) uncertainty about the future. All business risks are either pure or speculative. Pure risks bring the possibility of loss or no loss, but no gain. Speculative risks bring the possibility of loss, no change, or gain. 
SOURCE: SM:075 Explain the nature of risk management
SOURCE: LAP-SM-075—Prepare for the Worst; Expect the Best (Nature of Risk Management)

24. New legislation has greatly impacted the technology company that Katie works for. Recently, Katie’s management decisions have been based on adapting to this new legislation. What factor is most likely influencing Katie’s management decisions? 
A. Structural transformations
B. Regulatory changes
C. Economic factors
D. Competition in the industry

24. B
Regulatory changes. There are many factors that influence management decisions. New legislation is an example of a regulatory change that can significantly impact a manager’s decision-making. Structural transformations, economic factors, and competition in the industry are also influential factors, but they are not demonstrated in this example. 
SOURCE: SM:028 Describe factors that influence management
SOURCE: Cole-Ingait, P. (2019, April 26). Factors influencing changes in strategic management. Retrieved
January 11, 2024, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/factors-influencing-changes-strategicmanagement-70223.html 2024 HS ICDC ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXAM—KEY 7 

34. Knowledge is more __________ than learning. 
A. long-lasting
B. attainable
C. external
D. short-term

34. A
Long-lasting. Learning is the process of being exposed to new concepts and skills; knowledge is the information that is internalized and mastered through learning. Learning does not always lead to knowledge—much of what we learn is forgotten. In this way, learning—not knowledge—is fleeting. Gaining knowledge is a more long-term, internal process because it involves mastering a certain concept or skill. Learning is more attainable than knowledge because learning involves the exposure to new concepts or skills. 
SOURCE: SM:094 Describe relationship among innovation, learning, and change
SOURCE: Chron. (2021, May 25). Innovation and change in business. Retrieved January 10, 2024, from
https://smallbusiness.chron.com/innovation-change-business-1501.html 

54. When conducting a SWOT analysis, what is the first thing a business should do? 
A. Brainstorm its strengths
B. Consolidate its ideas
C. Summarize its opportunities
D. Select a SWOT facilitator

54. D
Select a SWOT facilitator. A SWOT analysis investigates a business’s strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats in an organized fashion. This type of analysis is important for businesses because it allows them to focus on specific areas, while also identifying actions that can help build on strengths, minimize weaknesses, maximize opportunities, and confront threats. One of the first things businesses should do when conducting a SWOT analysis is to select a SWOT facilitator. It is often helpful for companies to use an independent facilitator to free up the company's manager, team leader, or project leader to fully participate and not influence the input from others. Once a SWOT facilitator is selected, the business can go forth with brainstorming strengths, consolidating its ideas, identifying its strengths, and summarizing its strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats. 
SOURCE: SM:010 Conduct an organizational SWOT
SOURCE: McCarthy, D. (2019, November 13). How to conduct a SWOT analysis. Retrieved January 22, 2024,
from https://www.thebalancemoney.com/how-to-conduct-a-swot-analysis-2275929 

83. Which of the following items is most likely to be included in the company description section of a business plan: 
A. The goods the business offers
B. The date the business opened
C. The founders and their functions
D. The company's mission statement

83. B
The date the business opened. A business plan is a company's business model in written form. It serves as a company’s blueprint for success and shows how the business works now and how it is intended to work in the future. There are several sections of a typical business plan, including a cover page, executive summary, table of contents, company description, product(s) offered, and market analysis, to name a few. The date the business opened is information typically found in the company description section. The company's mission statement and its founders and their functions are both included in the executive summary of the business plan—the most important part of a company’s business or marketing plan because it gives an overview of the entire document, and is often used to determine whether it is worthwhile to read any further. The goods the business offers is information typically found in the product(s) offered section. 
SOURCE: SM:013 Develop business plan
SOURCE: LAP-SM-013—Plan for Success (Creating a Business Plan)

2. What does it mean to obtain sponsorship within the organization during the change management process? 
A. Securing the approval and involvement of senior executives
B. Obtaining funding for the change from an external sponsor
C. Earning the support of other companies in the industry
D. Gaining acceptance of the change from company stockholders

2. A
Securing the approval and involvement of senior executives. One of the most important steps in the change management process is obtaining sponsorship from senior executives within the organization. When company managers “sponsor” a change, they not only accept and approve of the change, they actively participate in bringing about the change. Sponsorship is critical for successful change management. Sponsorship in change management does not mean obtaining funding from an external sponsor, gaining acceptance from stockholders, or earning the support of other companies. 
SOURCE: SM:095 Explain the nature of change management
SOURCE: Prosci. (n.d.). Best practices in change management. Retrieved October 3, 2023, from
https://www.prosci.com/resources/articles/change-management-best-practices 

10. A business has determined that its customers prefer one of its products versus another product that it offers. As a result, the business decides to divert more resources to the product that is selling better. A change in __________ led to this business's decision. 
A. customer preferences
B. industry trends
C. competition
D. government regulations

10. A
Customer preferences. When customers show a pronounced interest in one product over another, businesses would be wise to react to that preference by manufacturing more of the preferred product and diverting more resources to that product. There's no indication that competition or government regulations impacted the business's decision. Also, the business is only examining customer preference for two of its own products, rather than identifying an industry-wide phenomenon. 
SOURCE: SM:094 Describe relationship among innovation, learning, and change
SOURCE: Decision Innovation. (n.d.). Managing change and innovation—Getting the most from the innovation
funnel. Retrieved October 3, 2023, from https://www.decision-making-solutions.com/managingchange-and-innovation.html 

20. Which of the following terms best describes an ethical manager who makes decisions about employees by considering only their performance: 
A. Inferior
B. Prejudiced
C. Cooperative
D. Fair

20. D
Fair. Ethics are the basic principles that govern a person's behavior. A manager who shows impartiality and has the ability to make judgments without showing favoritism or demonstrating self-interest is exhibiting fair behavior. A person is prejudiced when they have an opinion or make a judgment based on feeling or hearsay. An inferior attitude is an outlook of people who believe that they are less worthy than the people around them. Being cooperative means being able to get along with another person. 
SOURCE: SM:002 Explain the nature of managerial ethics
SOURCE: Dowd, M. (2021, August 30). How to treat employees fairly in the workplace. Retrieved October 2,
2023, from https://work.chron.com/treat-employees-fairly-workplace-3070.html 

41. When tracking the performance of a business plan, businesses usually analyze the effectiveness of 
A. operating strategies.
B. staffing requirements.
C. ownership structures.
D. management objectives.

41. A
Operating strategies. Operating strategies are the plans of action for running the business. When a business develops a business plan, it decides how the business will operate and the steps it will take to function effectively and be successful. It is important to analyze the effectiveness of these operating strategies to track the performance of the business plan to make sure the plan is successful. In some cases, businesses need to make changes to their operating strategies to improve performance. Businesses establish objectives, determine the ownership structure, and set staffing requirements in the process of preparing a business plan. 
SOURCE: SM:006 Track performance of business plan
SOURCE: McQuerrey, L. (n.d.). How to monitor & control your business plan. Retrieved October 2, 2023, from
https://smallbusiness.chron.com/monitor-control-business-plan-41401.html 

50. Which of the following is characteristic of a proactive business: 
A. Reacting to changes made by competitors
B. Taking action to create marketing opportunities
C. Watching for any changes in the external environment
D. Using a creative promotional mix

50. B
Taking action to create marketing opportunities. Being proactive is the process of adapting to the environment in advance of the occurrence of events. This means taking advantage of opportunities rather than reacting to changes or problems that occur. A proactive business is engaged in continuous planning rather than watching for changes or reacting to competitors' changes. A proactive business may use a creative promotional mix, but that is not a proactive characteristic. 
SOURCE: SM:011 Explain external planning considerations
SOURCE: Indeed. (2022, July 22). The importance of being proactive (plus tips). Retrieved October 2, 2023,
from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/why-is-being-proactive-important 

79. The information in an action plan describes an organization's 
A. vision and mission.
B. strategies for reaching its business goals.
C. business concept.
D. strategies for handling emergencies.

79. B
Strategies for reaching its business goals. An action plan describes how an organization plans to reach its business goals and includes crucial information such as needed resources and employee responsibilities. An action plan cannot be developed until a company's business concept, vision, and mission have been determined. Strategies for handling emergencies are described by an organization's safety plan. 
SOURCE: SM:012 Develop action plans
SOURCE: Sophy, J. (2023, June 14). What is an action plan and how to create one + an example. Retrieved
October 2, 2023, from https://smallbiztrends.com/2023/06/action-plan.html 

94. One of the purposes of developing a business plan before starting a new business is to 
A. identify a maintenance system.
B. organize the operation.
C. understand the risks involved.
D. create a safe work environment.

94. C
Understand the risks involved. A business plan is the written document that is developed before starting a business. It explains the goals and objectives of the company and how the company intends to achieve those goals. Developing a business plan helps the business understand the risks it might face and develop strategies to overcome possible problems. All businesses face some type of risk, and being aware of that often helps the business be successful. A business plan is not developed to organize the operation, create a safe work environment, or identify a maintenance system. 
SOURCE: SM:007 Explain the nature of business plans
SOURCE: LAP-SM-007— Plan Now, Succeed Later (Nature of Business Plans)

52. If a company spends all of its financial resources to discover a new way to purify water, it could be classified as a __________ organization. 
A. zero-risk
B. risk-tolerant
C. risk-seeking
D. risk-adverse

52. C
Risk-seeking. A company that spends all of its financial resources to discover a new way to purify water is a risk-seeking organization because it is hoping to gain from the discovery while risking its financial health. Riskadverse and risk-tolerant organizations do not seek new risks. A zero-risk approach to risk management involves eliminating all possible risks. 
SOURCE: SM:075 Explain the nature of risk management
SOURCE: LAP-SM-075—Prepare for the Worst; Expect the Best (Nature of Risk Management)

36. Which of the following tasks would a manager complete when organizing: 
A. Arranging an office space
B. Writing a marketing plan
C. Hiring employees
D. Training staff

36. A
Arranging an office space. Organizing involves activities such as allocating tasks, resources, and facilities. Arranging an office space is an example of allocating facilities. Hiring employees and training staff would fall under the staffing function of management. Writing a marketing plan would fall under the planning function of management. 
SOURCE: SM:064 Explain managerial considerations in organizing
SOURCE: LAP-SM-064—Put It All Together (Managerial Considerations in Organizing)
HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 9 

41. What is typically the first step in the managerial planning process? 
A. Developing company goals and objectives
B. Identifying necessary tasks
C. Establishing methods to evaluate progress
D. Prioritizing projects and tasks

41. A
Developing company goals and objectives. The first step in the managerial planning process involves establishing company goals and objectives. After establishing these goals, managers can identify the tasks and resources (money and staff) needed to reach those goals and objectives. Managers should then prioritize their goals and associated tasks so that staff understand where to focus their time and energy. Finally, managers should develop and implement methods to evaluate progress toward organizational goals and objectives. 
SOURCE: SM:063 Discuss the nature of managerial planning
SOURCE: Gartenstein, D. (2019, February 4). The basic steps in the management planning process. Retrieved
August 4, 2023, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/basic-steps-management-planning-process17646.html HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 10 

46. What might result if an event promoter scheduled a major concert in a facility that consumers considered to be located in an unsafe area? 
A. Decreased parking
B. Shortened hours
C. Reduced sales
D. Limited access

46. C
Reduced sales. The location of a sports or entertainment facility often has an effect on sales. If consumers feel that a facility is located in an unsafe area, they may be reluctant to purchase tickets to events. This would result in reduced sales. Event promoters should be aware of consumers' concerns for safety and schedule events in appropriate facilities. The location of a facility does not necessarily limit access or decrease parking. The length of an event would not be shortened because of the facility's location. 
SOURCE: SM:076 Conduct a risk assessment of an event
SOURCE: Superevent. (2023). 13 important things to consider when choosing your event venue. Retrieved
August 3, 2023, from https://superevent.com/blog/13-important-things-to-consider-when-choosingyour-event-venue/ 

63. Cedric is a marketing coordinator. He’s an accomplished marketer, but he doesn’t have a good grasp of how his role fits into the company as a whole. As a result, he doesn’t know he needs to share and report analytics with the sales team and customer service staff. This is an example of how a lack of organization can lead to 
A. miscommunication.
B. a damaged reputation.
C. interpersonal conflict.
D. employee turnover.

63. A
Miscommunication. A lack of organization makes it difficult for managers and employees to communicate effectively. Employees might not know with whom to communicate or what to share with others. For example, if a marketing coordinator does not know how their role fits into the company as a whole, they might not know they need to share and report analytics with the sales team and the customer service staff. When employees lack important information, the business can suffer greatly. A lack of organization can lead to a damaged reputation, employee turnover, and interpersonal conflict, but those consequences are not demonstrated in this example. 
SOURCE: SM:064 Explain managerial considerations in organizing
SOURCE: LAP-SM-064—Put It All Together (Managerial Organizing)

65. A tool that managers can use to delegate authority is a(n) 
A. income statement.
B. inventory record.
C. balance sheet.
D. organizational chart.

65. D
Organizational chart. An organizational chart is a graphic representation of the flow of authority within an organization. A well-defined organizational chart and clear-cut job descriptions are great tools that managers can use to delegate authority. A balance sheet is a financial statement that captures the financial condition of the business at that particular moment (assets and liabilities). An income statement is a financial summary that shows how much money the business has made or has lost over a period of time. An inventory record is a document containing information related to the goods that a business has on hand or order. 
SOURCE: SM:064 Explain managerial considerations in organizing
SOURCE: LAP-SM-064—Put It All Together (Managerial Organizing)

5. Which of the following is an example of motivation as a means of directing: 
A. A manager pays attention to what time employees clock in.
B. Andy’s boss asks him to stay an hour late to finish his project.
C. Emmie praises her employees for quality work.
D. Employees engage in team-building exercises.

5. C
Emmie praises her employees for quality work. Motivation is the process of getting employees to strive to achieve management's objectives because they want to achieve them. Emmie is motivating her employees by offering them praise when they achieve high-quality work. Paying attention to what time employees clock in, team-building activities, and asking an employee to stay late to finish a project are not necessarily examples of motivation. 
SOURCE: SM:066 Discuss managerial considerations in directing
SOURCE: LAP-SM-066—Take Action (Managerial Considerations in Directing)
HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 2 

71. Which of the following is a benefit of the division of labor: 
A. More direct oversight
B. Teamwork opportunities
C. Professional development
D. Increased efficiency

71. D
Increased efficiency. Division of labor is the process of dividing a large job into units, or job tasks, and assigning an individual to do each of the tasks. Division of labor allows for specialization, which makes organizations more efficient because the work is divided and shared to take advantage of employees’ skills. Division of labor does not necessarily lead to more direct oversight, teamwork opportunities, or professional development. 
SOURCE: SM:064 Explain managerial considerations in organizing
SOURCE: LAP-SM-064—Put It All Together (Managerial Organizing)

26. When assessing risks associated with an upcoming event, sports/event organizations should acquire input from all levels of management and 
A. financial consultants.
B. public relations agencies.
C. local personnel inspectors.
D. vertical staff members.

26. D
Vertical staff members. Vertical staff members refers to all employees who are not in management. Ticket takers, security guards, guest relations representatives, and merchandise sales personnel are examples of employees who might provide insight when conducting risk assessment. For example, sales personnel can provide information regarding shoplifting and its risks. By gathering as much information as possible from staff members, sports/event organizations can conduct comprehensive risk assessments in many areas and develop appropriate procedures to handle each situation or issue. Public relations agencies are hired by a business to develop and manage public relations activities for the business. Financial consultants are hired by a business to manage the business's financial matters. Local personnel inspector is not a term widely used by sports/event organizations. 
SOURCE: SM:076 Conduct a risk assessment of an event
SOURCE: Indeed. (2023, February 20). Comparing horizontal vs. vertical organizational structures. Retrieved
August 2, 2023, from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/horizontal-vsvertical-organizational-structure 

